## List dashboards

`GET

/api/2.0/lakeview/dashboards`

List dashboards.

API scopes:[`dashboards`](/api/workspace/api/scopes#dashboards)

### Query parameters

[`page_size`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#page_size)int32

[ 1 .. 1000 ]

Default `20`

The number of dashboards to return per page.

[`page_token`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#page_token)string

Example `page_token=EAI=`

A page token, received from a previous `ListDashboards` call.
This token can be used to retrieve the subsequent page.

[`show_trashed`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#show_trashed)boolean

Default `false`

The flag to include dashboards located in the trash.
If unspecified, only active dashboards will be returned.

[`view`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#view)string

Enum: `DASHBOARD_VIEW_BASIC`

Default `"DASHBOARD_VIEW_BASIC"`

`DASHBOARD_VIEW_BASIC` only includes summary metadata from the dashboard.

### Responses

**200** Request completed successfully.
The response includes a list of items and pagination information. If `next\_page\_token` is set, there are more results.

Request completed successfully.

The response includes a list of items and pagination information. If `next_page_token` is set, there are more results.

[`dashboards`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards)Array of object

Array [

[`create_time`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-create_time)date-time

The timestamp of when the dashboard was created.

[`dashboard_id`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-dashboard_id)string

Example `"04aab30f99ea444490c10c85852f216c"`

UUID identifying the dashboard.

[`display_name`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-display_name)string

Example `"Monthly Traffic Report"`

The display name of the dashboard.

[`etag`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-etag)string

Example `"80611980"`

The etag for the dashboard. Can be optionally provided on updates to ensure that the dashboard
has not been modified since the last read.
This field is excluded in List Dashboards responses.

[`lifecycle_state`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-lifecycle_state)string

Enum: `ACTIVE | TRASHED`

The state of the dashboard resource. Used for tracking trashed status.

[`parent_path`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-parent_path)string

Example `"/path/to/dir"`

The workspace path of the folder containing the dashboard. Includes leading slash and no
trailing slash.
This field is excluded in List Dashboards responses.

[`path`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-path)string

Example `"/path/to/dir/Monthly Traffic Report.lvdash.json"`

The workspace path of the dashboard asset, including the file name.
Exported dashboards always have the file extension `.lvdash.json`.
This field is excluded in List Dashboards responses.

[`serialized_dashboard`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-serialized_dashboard)string

Example `"{\"pages\":[{\"name\":\"b532570b\",\"displayName\":\"New Page\"}]}"`

The contents of the dashboard in serialized string form.
This field is excluded in List Dashboards responses.
Use the [get dashboard API](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/lakeview/get)
to retrieve an example response, which includes the `serialized_dashboard` field.
This field provides the structure of the JSON string that represents the dashboard's
layout and components.

[`update_time`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-update_time)date-time

The timestamp of when the dashboard was last updated by the user.
This field is excluded in List Dashboards responses.

[`warehouse_id`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#dashboards-warehouse_id)string

Example `"47bb1c472649e711"`

The warehouse ID used to run the dashboard.

]

[`next_page_token`](/api/workspace/lakeview/list#next_page_token)string

Example `"EAI="`

A token, which can be sent as `page_token` to retrieve the next page.
If this field is omitted, there are no subsequent dashboards.

This method might return the following HTTP codes: 400, 401, 403, 404, 500

Error responses are returned in the following format:

{
"error\_code": "Error code",
"message": "Human-readable error message."
}

# Possible error codes:

HTTP code

error\_code

Description

400

BAD\_REQUEST

Request is invalid.

401

UNAUTHORIZED

The request does not have valid authentication credentials for the operation.

403

PERMISSION\_DENIED

Caller does not have permission to execute the specified operation.

404

NOT\_FOUND

Operation was performed on a resource that does not exist.

500

INTERNAL\_SERVER\_ERROR

Internal error.

# Response samples

200

{
"dashboards": [
{
"create\_time": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
"dashboard\_id": "04aab30f99ea444490c10c85852f216c",
"display\_name": "Monthly Traffic Report",
"lifecycle\_state": "ACTIVE",
"warehouse\_id": "47bb1c472649e711"
}
],
"next\_page\_token": "EAI="
}