This page explains single-use refresh tokens for OAuth applications integrated with Databricks and describes how to configure them using the Databricks API. Single-use refresh tokens enhance security by requiring token rotation after each use.

## What are single-use refresh tokens?

Custom and published application integrations use single-use refresh tokens (also called refresh token rotation) in the user-to-machine (U2M) authentication flow. They enhance OAuth security by allowing each refresh token to be used only once. When a client application uses a refresh token to get new access credentials, Databricks issues a new refresh token and invalidates the old one.

Single-use refresh tokens are enabled by default for:

* [Tableau Desktop](/aws/en/partners/bi/tableau)
* [Power BI Desktop](/aws/en/partners/bi/power-bi-desktop)
* [Power BI service](/aws/en/partners/bi/power-bi-service)

For most other published apps and custom OAuth integrations, use the Databricks API to enable this feature.

Most modern OAuth client applications handle single-use refresh tokens automatically with no behavioral changes for end users. Not all client applications support this feature. If a client application doesn't work correctly with single-use refresh tokens enabled, you can disable the feature to revert to multi-use refresh tokens.

## Configure single-use refresh tokens

You can configure single-use refresh tokens through the Databricks API or the [Databricks CLI](https://github.com/databricks/cli). For more information on the API, see the [Databricks API documentation](https://docs.databricks.com/api/account/customappintegration/create). For more information on the Databricks CLI, see [Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/).

To enable single-use refresh tokens and set the OAuth session time-to-live (TTL), specify the `enable_single_use_refresh_tokens` and `absolute_session_lifetime_in_minutes` fields under `token_access_policy`.

* Databricks API
* Databricks CLI

JSON

```
{  
  "confidential": true,  
  "name": "Example Tableau Server",  
  "redirect_urls": ["https://example.online.tableau.com/auth/add_oauth_token"],  
  "scopes": ["all-apis", "offline_access"],  
  "token_access_policy": {  
    "access_token_ttl_in_minutes": 60,  
    "refresh_token_ttl_in_minutes": 1440,  
    "enable_single_use_refresh_tokens": true,  
    "absolute_session_lifetime_in_minutes": 43200  
  }  
}
```

Bash

```
databricks account custom-app-integration update <app_integration_id> --json '{  
    "token_access_policy": {  
      "access_token_ttl_in_minutes": 60,  
      "refresh_token_ttl_in_minutes": 1440,  
      "enable_single_use_refresh_tokens": true,  
      "absolute_session_lifetime_in_minutes": 43200  
    }  
}'
```