Preview

Configuring default Python package repositories for Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types). Workspace admins can control access to this feature from the [Previews](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/manage-previews) page.

Workspace admins can configure private or authenticated package repositories within workspaces as the default pip configuration for notebooks, jobs, and Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines.

If a workspace is configured with a default Python package repo, users in the workspace will be able to install packages from internal Python repositories without explicitly defining `index-url` or `extra-index-url` values. However, if these values are specified in code or in a notebook, they take precedence over the workspace defaults.

This configuration leverages [Databricks secrets](/aws/en/security/secrets/) to securely store and manage repository URLs and credentials. Workspace admins can configure the setup using the workspace admin settings page or using a predefined secret scope and the Databricks CLI [secrets commands](/aws/en/security/secrets/#manage-secret-scopes) or the [REST API](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/secrets).

## Set up default dependencies for a workspace

Workspace admins can add or remove the default Python package repositories using the workspace admin settings page.

1. As a workspace administrator, log in to the Databricks workspace.
2. Click your username in the top bar of the Databricks workspace and select **Settings**.
3. Click on the **Compute** tab.
4. Next to **Default Package Repositories**, click **Manage**.
5. (Optional) Add or remove an index URL, extra index URLs, or a custom SSL certificate.
6. Click **Save** to save the changes.

note

Modifications or deletions to secrets are applied differently depending on the workload type. For serverless notebooks and jobs, changes are applied after reattaching the compute resource to the notebook or rerunning the job. For classic notebooks and jobs, changes are applied after the compute resource is restarted. For Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines, changes are applied to new pipeline runs.

## Setup using the secrets CLI or REST API

To configure default Python package repositories using the CLI or REST API, create a predefined secret scope and configure access permissions, then add the package repository secrets.

### Predefined secret scope name

Workspace administrators can set default pip index URLs or extra index URLs along with authentication tokens and secrets in a designated secret scope under predefined keys:

* Secret scope name: `databricks-package-management`
* Secret key for index-url: `pip-index-url`
* Secret key for extra-index-urls: `pip-extra-index-urls`
* Secret key for SSL certification content: `pip-cert`

### Create the secret scope

A secret scope can be created using the Databricks CLI [secrets commands](/aws/en/security/secrets/#manage-secret-scopes) or the [REST API](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/secrets). After creating the secret scope, configure access control lists to grant all workspace users read access. This ensures that the repository remains secure and cannot be altered by individual users. The secret scope must use the predefined secret scope name `databricks-package-management`.

Bash

```
databricks secrets create-scope databricks-package-management  
databricks secrets put-acl databricks-package-management admins MANAGE  
databricks secrets put-acl databricks-package-management users READ
```

### Add Python package repository secrets

Add the Python package repository details using the predefined secret key names, with all three fields being optional.

Bash

```
# Add index URL.  
databricks secrets put-secret --json '{"scope": "databricks-package-management", "key": "pip-index-url", "string_value":"<index-url-value>"}'  
  
# Add extra index URLs. If you have multiple extra index URLs, separate them using white space.  
databricks secrets put-secret --json '{"scope": "databricks-package-management", "key": "pip-extra-index-urls", "string_value":"<extra-index-url-1 extra-index-url-2>"}'  
  
# Add cert content. If you want to pip configure a custom SSL certificate, put the cert file content here.  
databricks secrets put-secret --json '{"scope": "databricks-package-management", "key": "pip-cert", "string_value":"<cert-content>"}'
```

note

If your repository requires authentication, use one of the following formats for the index URL:

* Username and password: `https://<username>:<password>@<index_url>`
* Token: `https://<token>@<index_url>`

### Modify or delete private PyPI repository secrets

To modify PyPI repository secrets, use the `put-secret` command. To delete PyPI repository secrets, use `delete-secret` as shown below:

Bash

```
# delete secret  
databricks secrets delete-secret databricks-package-management pip-index-url  
  
databricks secrets delete-secret databricks-package-management pip-extra-index-urls  
  
databricks secrets delete-secret databricks-package-management pip-cert  
  
# delete scope  
databricks secrets delete-scope databricks-package-management
```