Preview

This feature is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types).

This page explains how to configure which driver your Power BI connections use. Although Arrow Database Connectivity (ADBC) is the default driver for all new Power BI connections created using the UI, pre-existing connections continue to use Open Database Connectivity (ODBC), unless you manually update them to ADBC.

The [Arrow Database Connectivity (ADBC)](https://github.com/apache/arrow-adbc/blob/main/csharp/src/Drivers/Databricks/readme.md) driver is a modern, columnar API standard designed for analytical applications, enabling efficient data transfer between databases and client tools using the Apache Arrow format. For the latest updates to the ADBC driver, see the [changelog](https://github.com/apache/arrow-adbc/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

To use the ADBC driver, use Power BI Desktop 2.145.1105.0 or above.

important

Power BI plans to transition all Power BI connections to ADBC in August 2026. Databricks recommends switching to and testing ADBC now to provide feedback and help ensure a disruption-free migration.

note

You must use only one driver type per semantic model. Configure every Databricks connection within a semantic model to either ADBC or ODBC.

Databricks continues to enhance this connector and add new capabilities. Upgrade to the latest version, try it out, and [Submit product feedback](/aws/en/resources/ideas).

## Switch existing connections to ADBC

Some existing Power BI connections continue to use the ODBC driver unless you manually update them. You can switch individual dashboards to use ADBC by editing the implementation.

To switch an existing connection to the ADBC driver for a specific dashboard:

1. Open the desired dashboard in Power BI.
2. Click **Transform Data**.
3. Click **Advanced Editor** in the **Query** option section.
4. Specify `Implementation="2.0"` to switch to the ADBC driver.

   ```
   let  
       Source = DatabricksMultiCloud.Catalogs("<instance-name>.cloud.databricks.net", "/sql/1.0/warehouses/<sql-warehouse-id>",  
        [Catalog=null, Database=null, EnableAutomaticProxyDiscovery=null, Implementation="2.0"]),  
       powerbi_Database = Source{[Name="powerbi",Kind="Database"]}[Data],  
       default_Schema = powerbi_Database{[Name="default",Kind="Schema"]}[Data],  
       dashboard_data_Table = default_Schema{[Name="dashboard_data",Kind="Table"]}[Data]  
   in  
       dashboard_data_Table
   ```

## Switch back to ODBC

If you prefer to use ODBC instead of ADBC for new connections, you have two options:

* If you want to use the ODBC driver for a specific connection in Power BI Desktop or Power BI Service, select `default` as the **Implementation**.
* If you want to continue to use the ODBC driver for all new connections in Power BI, disable the ADBC feature preview to restore ODBC in Power BI Desktop.

To use the ODBC driver for all new connections:

1. On Power BI Desktop, click **File > Options and settings > Options**.
2. Click **Preview Feature**.
3. Clear **Use new Databricks connector implementations**.

If you want to configure a specific connection to use the ODBC driver, set `default` as the **Implementation**. See the steps outlined in [Switch existing connections to ADBC](#adbc).

## Additional resources

* [Configure Microsoft Entra ID SSO for Power BI](/aws/en/partners/bi/power-bi-fed-sso)