Preview the source setup tasks ingestion from SQL Server into Databricks using Lakeflow Connect.

## Change tracking vs. change data capture

Change tracking and change data capture (CDC) enable Databricks to track changes in the source tables. Databricks recommends using change tracking for any table that has a primary key to minimize the load on the source database. If change tracking and CDC are both enabled, the SQL Server connector uses change tracking.

| Method | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Change tracking | Captures the fact that rows in a table have changed, but doesn't capture the actual operations. Change tracking does require that a table has a primary key, but it's a lightweight process that doesn't have a large impact on the source database. |
| Change data capture | Captures every operation on a table and contains a historical view on the changes made over time. CDC doesn't require that a table have a primary key, but it can have more of an impact on the performance of the source database. |

For more information about these options, see [Track data changes (SQL Server)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/track-changes/track-data-changes-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver16) in the SQL Server documentation.

## Overview of source setup

You must complete the following tasks in SQL Server before you ingest data into Databricks:

1. Confirm that you meet the SQL Server version requirements:

   * To use change tracking, you must have SQL Server 2012 or above.
   * To use CDC, you must have SQL Server 2012 service pack 1 (SP1) cumulative update package 3 (CU3) or above. For versions earlier than SQL Server 2016, Enterprise Edition is also required.
2. Configure firewall settings, if needed.

   * [AWS SQL Database](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/aws-sql-db-firewall)
3. Create a database user in SQL Server that is dedicated to Databricks ingestion and meets the [privilege requirements](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/sql-server-privileges).
4. Set up the source database, including permission management, change tracking enablement, and CDC enablement. See [Prepare SQL Server for ingestion using the utility objects script](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/sql-server-utility).