Create a Salesforce connection in Catalog Explorer to store authentication credentials for Lakeflow Connect ingestion. Any user with the `USE CONNECTION` privilege on the connection can then create Salesforce ingestion pipelines without needing direct access to the credentials.

Alternatively, admin users can create a connection and a pipeline at the same time in the data ingestion UI. See [Create an ingestion pipeline](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/salesforce-pipeline).

For privilege requirements, see [Connect to managed ingestion sources](/aws/en/connect/managed-ingestion).

## Prerequisites

Salesforce applies usage restrictions to connected apps. The permissions in the following table are required for a successful first-time authentication. If you lack these permissions, Salesforce blocks the connection and requires an admin to install the Databricks connected app.

| Condition | Required permission |
| --- | --- |
| [API Access Control](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=xcloud.security_api_access_control_all_users.htm&type=5) is enabled. | `Customize Application` and either `Modify All Data` or `Manage Connected Apps` |
| API Access Control is not enabled. | `Approve Uninstalled Connected Apps` |

For background, see [Prepare for Connected App Usage Restrictions Change](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=005132365&type=1) in the Salesforce documentation.

## Create a connection

1. In the Databricks workspace, click **Catalog > External locations > Connections > Create connection**.
2. On the **Connection basics** page of the **Set up connection** wizard, specify a unique **Connection name**.
3. In the **Connection type** drop-down menu, select **Salesforce**.
4. (Optional) Add a comment.
5. Click **Next**.
6. If you're ingesting from a Salesforce sandbox account, set **Is sandbox** to `true`.
7. Click **Sign in with Salesforce**.

   You're redirected to Salesforce.
8. If you're ingesting from a Salesforce sandbox, click **Use Custom Domain**, provide the sandbox URL, and then click **Continue**.
9. Enter your Salesforce credentials and click **Log in**. Databricks recommends logging in as a Salesforce user that's dedicated to Databricks ingestion.

   important

   For security purposes, only authenticate if you clicked an OAuth 2.0 link in the Databricks UI.
10. After returning to the ingestion wizard, click **Create connection**.

## Next steps

[Create an ingestion pipeline](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/salesforce-pipeline).