note

This setting is not available for accounts created after December 19, 2025. Accounts created after this date won't have access to legacy features by default.

This page describes how to use the **Disable legacy features** account setting so new workspaces in your account are provisioned without access to legacy features.

This setting disables the following legacy features in all new workspaces in your account:

* [DBFS root and mounts](/aws/en/dbfs/)
* [Hive Metastore](/aws/en/archive/external-metastores/external-hive-metastore)
* [No-isolation shared clusters](/aws/en/admin/account-settings/no-isolation-shared#no-isolation-shared)
* Databricks Runtime versions prior to 13.3 LTS

Workspace admins can use workspace-level settings to disable legacy features in existing workspaces. These settings can also be used to enable the legacy features in new workspaces, if needed. See [Manage legacy features at the workspace level](#workspace).

## Before you begin

If your organization uses workspace deployment automation that depends on these legacy features, this setting could break your automation.

Before disabling legacy features at the account level, adjust any scripts or internal processes for workspace creation that use DBFS root, DBFS mounts, or the Hive Metastore.

## Disable legacy features in your account

1. In the [account console](https://accounts.cloud.databricks.com), click  **Settings**.
2. Click the **Feature enablement** tab.
3. Set **Disable legacy features** to **Disabled: Legacy access features will not be available in new workspaces**.

The setting can take up to five minutes to take effect.

## Manage legacy features at the workspace level

Databricks recommends disabling legacy features at the account level. This ensures that new workspaces are created without the ability to use the legacy features by default.

If needed, a workspace admin can enable or disable these legacy features at the workspace level, even if the account-level setting is set to **Disabled**.

The following workspace-level settings can be used to manage legacy features in existing workspaces:

* [Disable DBFS root and mounts](/aws/en/dbfs/disable-dbfs-root-mounts#disable-dbfs-root-mounts)
* [Disable access to the Hive metastore used by your Databricks workspace](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/disable-hms)
* [Enforce user isolation cluster types on a workspace](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/enforce-user-isolation)