note

Databricks CLI use is subject to the [Databricks License](https://github.com/databricks/cli?tab=License-1-ov-file#readme) and [Databricks Privacy Notice](https://www.databricks.com/legal/privacynotice), including any Usage Data provisions.

The [Databricks CLI](https://github.com/databricks/cli) (command-line interface) allows you to interact with the Databricks platform from your local terminal or automation scripts. You can also run Databricks CLI commands from within a Databricks workspace using web terminal. See [Run shell commands in Databricks web terminal](/aws/en/compute/web-terminal).

To install and configure authentication for the Databricks CLI, see [Install or update the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/install) and [Authentication for the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/authentication).

tip

The Databricks CLI source is publicly available in the [databricks/cli GitHub repository](https://github.com/databricks/cli).

## How does the Databricks CLI work?

The CLI wraps the Databricks REST API, which provides endpoints for modifying or requesting information about Databricks account and workspace objects. See the [Databricks REST API reference](https://docs.databricks.com/api/).

For example, to print information about an individual cluster in a workspace:

Bash

```
databricks clusters get 1234-567890-a12bcde3
```

With `curl`, the equivalent operation is as follows:

Bash

```
curl --request GET "https://${DATABRICKS_HOST}/api/2.0/clusters/get" \  
     --header "Authorization: Bearer ${DATABRICKS_TOKEN}" \  
     --data '{ "cluster_id": "1234-567890-a12bcde3" }'
```

## Databricks CLI version release types

The [release type](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types) of the Databricks CLI corresponds to the version:

* Versions 1.0.0 and above are generally available (GA).
* Versions 0.205 through 0.299 are Public Preview.
* Versions 0.18 and below are legacy CLI.

### Legacy CLI

The legacy Databricks CLI is versions 0.18 and below.

* Databricks plans no support or new feature work for the legacy Databricks CLI.
* For more information about the legacy Databricks CLI, see [Legacy Databricks CLI](/aws/en/archive/dev-tools/cli/).
* To migrate from Databricks CLI version 0.18 or below to Databricks CLI version 0.205 or above, see [Databricks CLI migration](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/migrate).

## Next steps

* To install the CLI and configure authentication to quickly get started, see [Databricks CLI tutorial](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/tutorial).
* To skip the tutorial and just install the CLI, see [Install or update the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/install).
* To learn about all available authentication types between the CLI and your Databricks accounts and workspaces, see [Authentication for the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/authentication).
* To use configuration profiles to quickly switch between related groups of CLI settings, see [Configuration profiles for the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/profiles).
* To learn about basic usage for the CLI, see [Basic usage for the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/usage).
* For a list of all available CLI commands, see [Databricks CLI commands](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/commands).