Beta

This feature is in [Beta](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types). Workspace admins can control access to this feature from the **Previews** page. See [Manage Databricks previews](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/manage-previews).

This article describes how to create a generative AI agent for custom text-based tasks using Custom LLM.

## What can you do with Custom LLM?

Use Custom LLM to generate high-quality results for any domain-specific task, such as summarization, classification, text transformation, and content generation.

Custom LLM is ideal for the following use cases:

* Summarizing the issue and resolution of customer calls.
* Analyzing the sentiment of customer reviews.
* Classifying research papers by topic.
* Generating press releases for new features.

Given high-level instruction and examples, Custom LLM optimizes prompts on behalf of users, automatically infers evaluation criteria, evaluates the system from provided data, and deploys the model as a productionizable endpoint.

Custom LLM leverages automated evaluation capabilities, including MLflow and [Agent Evaluation](/aws/en/agents/agent-evaluation/), to enable rapid assessment of the cost-quality tradeoff for your specific extraction task. This assessment allows you to make informed decisions about the balance between accuracy and resource investment.

Custom LLM uses [default storage](/aws/en/storage/default-storage) to store temporary data transformations, model checkpoints, and internal metadata that power each agent. On agent deletion, all data associated with the agent is removed from default storage.

## Requirements

* A workspace that includes the following:
  + [Serverless compute](/aws/en/compute/serverless/) available (enabled by default in workspaces with Unity Catalog).
  + Unity Catalog enabled. See [Enable a workspace for Unity Catalog](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/enable-workspaces).
  + Access to [Model Serving](/aws/en/machine-learning/model-serving/).
  + Access to a [serverless usage policy](/aws/en/admin/usage/budget-policies) with a nonzero budget.
* A workspace in one of the [supported regions](/aws/en/resources/feature-region-support#ai-aws).
* Ability to use the [`ai_query` SQL function](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/functions/ai_query#requirement).
* You must have input data ready to use. You can choose to provide either:
  + A Unity Catalog table. The table name cannot contain any special characters (such as `-`).
    - If you want to use PDFs, convert them to a Unity Catalog table. See [Use PDFs in Custom LLM](#pdf).
  + At least 3 example inputs and outputs. If you choose this option, you'll need to specify a Unity Catalog schema destination path for the agent, and you must have CREATE REGISTERED MODEL and CREATE TABLE permissions to this schema.
* If you want to optimize your agent, you need at least 100 inputs (either 100 rows in a Unity Catalog table or 100 manually-provided examples).

## Create a custom LLM agent​

Go to  **Agents** in the left navigation pane of your workspace. From the **Custom LLM** tile, click **Build**.

## Step 1: Configure your agent

On the **Build** tab, click **Show an example >** to expand an example input and model response for a Custom LLM agent.

In the pane below, configure your agent:

1. Under **Describe your task**, enter a clear and detailed description of your specialization task, including its purpose and desired outcome.
2. Provide a labeled dataset, an unlabeled dataset, or a few examples to use to create your agent.

   If you want to use PDFs, convert them to a Unity Catalog table first. See [Use PDFs in Custom LLM](#pdf).

   The following data types are supported: `string`, `int`, and `double`.

   * Labeled dataset
   * Unlabeled dataset
   * A few examples

   If you select **Labeled dataset**:

   1. Under **Select dataset as UC table**, click **Browse** to select the table in Unity Catalog you want to use. The table name cannot contain any special characters (such as `-`).

      The following is an example:

      `main.model_specialization.customer_call_transcripts`
   2. In the **Input column** field, select the column you want to use as your input text. The dropdown menu is automatically populated with columns from your selected table.
   3. In the **Output column**, select the column you want to provide as an example output for the expected transformation. Providing this data helps configure your agent to more accurately adapt to your domain-specific needs.

   If you select **Unlabeled dataset**:

   1. Under **Select dataset as UC table**, click **Browse** to select the table in Unity Catalog you want to use. The table name cannot contain any special characters (such as `-`).
   2. In the **Input column** field, select the column you want to use as your input text. The dropdown menu is automatically populated with columns from your selected table.

   If you select **A few examples**:

   1. Provide at least 3 examples of inputs and expected outputs for your specialization task. Providing high-quality examples helps configure your specialization agent to better understand your requirements.
   2. To add more examples, click **+ Add.**
   3. Under **Agent destination**, select the Unity Catalog schema where you'd like Custom LLM to help you create a table with evaluation data. You must have CREATE REGISTERED MODEL and CREATE TABLE permissions to this schema.
3. Name your agent.
4. Click **Create agent**.

## Step 2: Build and improve your agent

In the **Build** tab, review recommendations to improve your agent, review sample model outputs, and adjust your task instructions and evaluation criteria.

1. In the **Recommendation** pane, Databricks provides recommendations to help you optimize and evaluate sample responses as good or bad.

   1. Review the Databricks recommendations for optimizing agent performance.
   2. Provide feedback to improve responses. For each response, answer **Is this a good response?** with **Yes** or **No**. If **No**, provide optional feedback on the response and click **Save** to move onto the next one.
   3. You can also choose to **Dismiss** the recommendation.
2. On the right, under **Guidelines**, set clear guidelines to help your agent produce the right output. These will also be used to automatically evaluate quality.

   1. Review suggested guidelines. The guideline suggestions are automatically inferred to help you optimize your agent. You can refine them or delete them.
   2. Custom LLM may propose additional guidelines. Select **Accept** to add the new guideline, **Reject** to reject it, or click into the text to edit the guideline first.
   3. To add your own guidelines, click  **Add**.
   4. Click **Save and update** to update the agent.
3. (Optional) On the right side, under **Instructions**, describe your task. Add any additional instructions for the agent to follow when generating its responses. Click **Save and update** to apply the instructions.
4. After you update the agent, new sample responses are generated. Review and provide feedback on these responses.

## Step 3: Evaluate your agent

A quality report containing a small set of evaluation results is automatically generated from your guidelines. Review this report in the **Quality** tab.

Each accepted guideline is used as an evaluation metric. For each generated request, the response is evaluated using the guidelines and given a pass/fail assessment. These assessments are used to generate the evaluation scores shown at the top. Click an evaluation result to see the full details.

Use the quality report to help you decide if the agent needs further optimization.

## (Optional) Optimize your agent

Custom LLM can help optimize your agent for cost. Databricks recommends at least 100 inputs (either 100 rows in your Unity Catalog table or 100 manually-provided examples) to optimize your agent. When you add more inputs, the knowledge base that the agent can learn from increases, which improves agent quality and its response accuracy.

When you optimize your agent, Databricks compares multiple different optimization strategies to build and deploy an optimized agent. These strategies include Foundation Model Fine-tuning which uses [Databricks Geos](/aws/en/resources/databricks-geos).

To optimize your agent:

1. Click **Optimize**.
2. Click **Start optimization**.

   Optimization can take a few hours. Making changes to your currently active agent is blocked when optimization is in progress.
3. When optimization completes, review a comparison of your currently active agent and the agent optimized for cost.
4. After you review these results, select the best model under **Deploy best model to an endpoint** and click **Deploy**.

## Step 4: Use your agent

Try out your agent in workflows across Databricks.

To start using your agent, click **Use**. You have the following options:

* Click **Try in SQL** to open the SQL editor and use [`ai_query`](/aws/en/large-language-models/ai-query) to send requests to your new Custom LLM agent.
* Click **Create pipeline** to deploy a pipeline that runs at scheduled intervals to use your agent on new data. See [Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/) for more information about pipelines.
* Click **Open in Playground** to test out your agent in a chat environment with [AI Playground](/aws/en/large-language-models/ai-playground).

## Manage permissions

By default, only agent authors and workspace admins have permissions to the agent. To allow other users to edit or query your agent, you need to explicitly grant them permission.

To manage permissions on your agent:

1. Open your agent on the **Agents** page.
2. At the top, click the  kebab menu.
3. Click **Manage permissions**.
4. In the **Permission Settings** window, select the user, group, or service principal.
5. Select the permission to grant:
   * **Can Manage**: Allows managing the agent, including setting permissions, editing the agent configuration, and improving its quality.
   * **Can Query**: Allows querying the agent endpoint in [AI Playground](/aws/en/large-language-models/ai-playground) and through the API. Users with only this permission cannot view or edit the agent on the Agents page.
6. Click **Add**.
7. Click **Save**.

note

For agent endpoints created **before September 16, 2025**, you can grant **Can Query** permissions to the endpoint from the **Serving endpoints** page.

## Query the agent endpoint

On the agent page, click  **See Agent status** in the upper-right to get your deployed agent endpoint and see endpoint details.

There are multiple ways to query the created agent endpoint. Use the code examples provided in AI Playground as a starting point:

1. On the agent page, click **Use**.
2. Click **Open in playground**.
3. From Playground, click **Get code**.
4. Choose how you want to use the endpoint:
   * Select **Apply on data** to create a SQL query that applies the agent to a specific table column.
   * Select **Curl API** for a code example to query the endpoint using curl.
   * Select **Python API** for a code example to interact with the endpoint using Python.

## Use PDFs in Custom LLM

PDFs are not yet supported natively in Information Extraction and Custom LLM. However, you can use UI workflow to convert a folder of PDF files into markdown, then use the resulting Unity Catalog table as input when building your agent. This workflow uses [`ai_parse_document`](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/functions/ai_parse_document) for the conversion. Follow these steps:

1. Click **Agents** in the left navigation pane.
2. In the Information Extraction or Custom LLM use cases, click **Use PDFs**.
3. In the side panel that opens, enter the following fields to create a new workflow to convert your PDFs:

   1. **Select folder with PDFs or images**: Select the Unity Catalog folder containing the PDFs you want to use.
   2. **Select destination table**: Select the destination schema for the converted markdown table and, optionally, adjust the table name in the field below.
   3. **Select active SQL warehouse**: Select the SQL warehouse to run the workflow.
4. Click **Start import**.
5. You will be redirected to the **All workflows** tab, which lists all of your PDF workflows. Use this tab to monitor the status of your jobs.

   If your workflow fails, click on the job name to open it and view error messages to help you debug.
6. When your workflow has completed successfully, click on the job name to open the table in Catalog Explorer to explore and understand the columns.
7. Use the Unity Catalog table as input data when configuring your agent.

## Limitations

* Databricks recommends at least 100 inputs (either 100 rows in your Unity Catalog table or 100 manually-provided samples) to optimize your agent. When you add more inputs, the knowledge base that the agent can learn from increases, which improves agent quality and its response accuracy.
* If you provide a Unity Catalog table, the table name cannot contain any special characters (such as `-`).
* Only the following data types are supported as inputs: `string`, `int`, and `double`.
* Usage capacity is currently limited to 100k input and output tokens per minute.
* Workspaces that have [Enhanced Security and Compliance](/aws/en/security/privacy/#esc) enabled are not supported.
* Optimization may fail in workspaces that have [serverless egress control network policies with restricted access mode](/aws/en/security/network/serverless-network-security/network-policies).