This article demonstrates how to deploy models using [Foundation Model APIs](/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/) provisioned throughput. Databricks recommends provisioned throughput for production workloads, and it provides optimized inference for foundation models with performance guarantees.

## What is provisioned throughput?

When you create a provisioned throughput model serving endpoint on Databricks, you allocate dedicated inference capacity to ensure consistent throughput for the foundation model you want to serve. Model serving endpoints that serve foundation models can be provisioned in chunks of [model units](/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/model-units). The number of model units you allocate allows you to purchase exactly the throughput required to reliably support your production GenAI application.

For a list of supported model architectures for provisioned throughput endpoints, see [Supported foundation models on Model Serving](/aws/en/machine-learning/model-serving/foundation-model-overview).

## Requirements

See [Requirements](/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/#required).

## [Recommended] Deploy foundation models from Unity Catalog

Databricks recommends using the foundation models that are pre-installed in Unity Catalog. You can find these models under the catalog `system` in the schema `ai` (`system.ai`).

note

If your organization uses [foundation model Unity Catalog permissions](/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/model-uc-permissions) to restrict model access, provisioned throughput endpoints for disallowed models must be deleted manually.

To deploy a foundation model:

1. Navigate to `system.ai` in Catalog Explorer.
2. Click on the name of the model to deploy.
3. On the model page, click the **Serve this model** button.
4. The **Create serving endpoint** page appears. See [Create your provisioned throughput endpoint using the UI](#provisioned-throughput-endpoint-ui).

note

To deploy a Meta Llama model from `system.ai` in Unity Catalog, you must choose the applicable **Instruct** version. Base versions of the Meta Llama models are not supported for deployment from Unity Catalog. See [Foundation models hosted on Databricks](/aws/en/machine-learning/model-serving/foundation-model-overview#aws-models) for supported Meta Llama model variants.

## Create your provisioned throughput endpoint using the UI

After the logged model is in Unity Catalog, create a provisioned throughput serving endpoint with the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Serving UI** in your workspace.
2. Select **Create serving endpoint**.
3. In the **Entity** field, select your model from Unity Catalog. For eligible models, the UI for the served entity shows the **Provisioned Throughput** screen.
4. In the **Up to** dropdown you can configure the maximum tokens per second throughput for your endpoint.
   1. Provisioned throughput endpoints automatically scale, so you can select **Modify** to view the minimum tokens per second your endpoint can scale down to.

## Create your provisioned throughput endpoint using the REST API

To deploy your model in provisioned throughput mode using the REST API, you must specify `min_provisioned_throughput` and `max_provisioned_throughput` fields in your request. If you prefer Python, you can also [create an endpoint using the MLflow Deployment SDK](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/python_api/mlflow.deployments.html#mlflow.deployments.DatabricksDeploymentClient).

To identify the suitable range of provisioned throughput for your model, see [Get provisioned throughput in increments](#get-increments).

Python

```
import requests  
import json  
  
# Set the name of the MLflow endpoint  
endpoint_name = "prov-throughput-endpoint"  
  
# Name of the registered MLflow model  
model_name = "ml.llm-catalog.foundation-model"  
  
# Get the latest version of the MLflow model  
model_version = 3  
  
# Get the API endpoint and token for the current notebook context  
API_ROOT = "<YOUR-API-URL>"  
API_TOKEN = "<YOUR-API-TOKEN>"  
  
headers = {"Context-Type": "text/json", "Authorization": f"Bearer {API_TOKEN}"}  
  
optimizable_info = requests.get(  
  url=f"{API_ROOT}/api/2.0/serving-endpoints/get-model-optimization-info/{model_name}/{model_version}",  
  headers=headers)  
  .json()  
  
if 'optimizable' not in optimizable_info or not optimizable_info['optimizable']:  
  raise ValueError("Model is not eligible for provisioned throughput")  
  
chunk_size = optimizable_info['throughput_chunk_size']  
  
# Minimum desired provisioned throughput  
min_provisioned_throughput = 2 * chunk_size  
  
# Maximum desired provisioned throughput  
max_provisioned_throughput = 3 * chunk_size  
  
# Send the POST request to create the serving endpoint  
data = {  
  "name": endpoint_name,  
  "config": {  
    "served_entities": [  
      {  
        "entity_name": model_name,  
        "entity_version": model_version,  
        "min_provisioned_throughput": min_provisioned_throughput,  
        "max_provisioned_throughput": max_provisioned_throughput,  
      }  
    ]  
  },  
}  
  
response = requests.post(  
  url=f"{API_ROOT}/api/2.0/serving-endpoints", json=data, headers=headers  
)  
  
print(json.dumps(response.json(), indent=4))
```

### Log probability for chat completion tasks

For chat completion tasks, you can use the `logprobs` parameter to provide the log probability of a token being sampled as part of the large language model generation process. You can use `logprobs` for a variety of scenarios including classification, assessing model uncertainty, and running evaluation metrics. See [Chat Completions API](/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/api-reference#chat) for parameter details.

### Get provisioned throughput in increments

Provisioned throughput is available in increments of tokens per second with specific increments varying by model. To identify the suitable range for your needs, Databricks recommends using the model optimization information API within the platform.

Bash

```
GET api/2.0/serving-endpoints/get-model-optimization-info/{registered_model_name}/{version}
```

The following is an example response from the API:

JSON

```
{  
  "optimizable": true,  
  "model_type": "llama",  
  "throughput_chunk_size": 980  
}
```

JSON

```
{  
  "optimizable": true,  
  "model_type": "gte",  
  "throughput_chunk_size": 980  
}
```

## Limitation

* Model deployment might fail due to GPU capacity issues, which results in a timeout during endpoint creation or update. Reach out to your Databricks account team to help resolve.