Preview

This feature is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types).

Use tags to organize and categorize Databricks apps for easier management. Databricks Apps also support certification and deprecation system tags to indicate trust or lifecycle status.

For more information about tags, see [Apply tags to Unity Catalog securable objects](/aws/en/database-objects/tags). For information about certification and deprecation, see [Flag data as certified or deprecated](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/certify-deprecate-data).

## Preview limitations

* You cannot search for Databricks apps by tag.
* Tags on Databricks apps do not propagate to billing.

## View tags

To view tags on an app:

1. Open your app.
2. In the right panel, the **Tags** section displays all tags assigned to the app.

## Add tags

You must have at least CAN MANAGE permissions on an app to add a tag. To add a governed tag, you must also have the ASSIGN permission on the governed tag.

To add tags:

1. Open your app.
2. In the right panel, under **Tags**, add or update a tag:

   * If there are no tags, click **Add tags**.
   * If there are tags, click the  **Add/Edit tags** icon.
3. Select an existing tag **Key** and **Value** or enter a name of a new tag.

   * Tags that are governed are in the **Governed** section header and have a lock icon .
   * Tag keys are required. Whether a tag value is required depends on the tag key.

## Remove tags

You must have at least CAN MANAGE permissions on an app to remove a tag.

To remove tags:

1. Open your app.
2. In the right panel, under **Tags**, click the  **Add/Edit tags** icon.
3. Click the  next to the tag you want to remove.
4. Click **Save**.