This page describes how to read data in Salesforce Data 360 (formerly Data Cloud) using the file sharing connector.

### Which Salesforce connector should I use?

Databricks offers multiple connectors for Salesforce. There are two zero-copy connectors: the Salesforce Data 360 file sharing connector and the Salesforce Data 360 query federation connector. These allow you to query data in Salesforce Data 360 without moving it. There is also a Salesforce ingestion connector that copies data from various Salesforce products.

The following table summarizes the differences between the Salesforce connectors in Databricks:

| Connector | Use case | Supported Salesforce products |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Salesforce Data 360 file sharing | When you use the Salesforce Data 360 file sharing connector in Lakehouse Federation, Databricks calls Salesforce Data-as-a-Service (DaaS) APIs to read data in the underlying cloud object storage location directly. Queries are run on Databricks compute without using the JDBC protocol.  Compared to query federation, file sharing is ideal for federating a large amount of data. It offers improved performance for reading files from multiple data sources and better pushdown capabilities. See [Lakehouse Federation for Salesforce Data 360 File Sharing](/aws/en/query-federation/salesforce-data-cloud-file-sharing). | Salesforce Data 360 |
| Salesforce Data 360 query federation | When you use the Salesforce Data 360 query federation connector in Lakehouse Federation, Databricks uses JDBC to connect to source data and pushes queries down into Salesforce. See [Run federated queries on Salesforce Data 360](/aws/en/query-federation/salesforce-data-cloud). | Salesforce Data 360 |
| Salesforce ingestion | The Salesforce ingestion connector in Lakeflow Connect allows you to create fully-managed ingestion pipelines from Salesforce Platform data. This connector maximizes value by leveraging not only CDP data but also CRM data in the Data Intelligence Platform. See [Ingest data from Salesforce](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/salesforce-pipeline). | See [Which Salesforce products does the Salesforce ingestion connector support?](/aws/en/ingestion/lakeflow-connect/salesforce-faq#sfdc-product-support) |

## Before you begin

Workspace requirements:

* Workspace enabled for Unity Catalog.

Compute requirements:

* Network connectivity from your Databricks compute resource to the Salesforce Data 360 API and Salesforce Data 360's public S3 buckets where data resides. See [Networking recommendations for Lakehouse Federation](/aws/en/query-federation/networking).
* Databricks clusters must use Databricks Runtime 16.3 or above and standard access mode.
* SQL warehouses must be Pro or Serverless.

Permissions required:

* To create a connection, you must have the `CREATE CONNECTION` privilege on the Unity Catalog metastore attached to the workspace.
* To create a foreign catalog, you must have the `CREATE CATALOG` permission on the metastore and be either the owner of the connection or have the `CREATE FOREIGN CATALOG` privilege on the connection.

Additional permission requirements are specified in each task-based section that follows.

## Create a connection and a foreign catalog

A connection specifies a path and credentials for accessing an external database system. To create a connection, you can use Catalog Explorer or the `CREATE CONNECTION` SQL command in a Databricks notebook or the Databricks SQL query editor.

note

You can also use the Databricks REST API or the Databricks CLI to create a connection. See [POST /api/2.1/unity-catalog/connections](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/connections/create) and [Unity Catalog commands](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/commands#unity-catalog-commands).

**Permissions required:** Metastore admin or user with the `CREATE CONNECTION` privilege.

* Catalog Explorer
* SQL

1. In your Databricks workspace, click  **Catalog**.
2. At the top of the **Catalog** pane, click the  **Add** icon and select **Create a connection** from the menu.
3. On the **Connection basics** page of the **Set up connection** wizard, enter a user-friendly **Connection name**.
4. Select a **Connection type** of **Salesforce Data 360 File Sharing**.
5. (Optional) Add a comment.
6. Click **Create connection**.
7. On the **Authentication** page, enter the following properties for your Salesforce Data 360 File Sharing instance:

   * **Tenant Specific Endpoint**: For example, `https://mvsw0mbrmqzdcyj-m02t0mrsh1.pc-rnd.c360a.salesforce.com`
   * **Core Tenant Id**: For example, `core/falcontest8-core4sdb26/00DVF000001E16v2AC`
8. On the **Catalog basics** page, enter a name for the foreign catalog. A foreign catalog mirrors a database in an external data system so that you can query and manage access to data in that database using Databricks and Unity Catalog.
9. (Optional) Click **Test connection** to confirm that it works.
10. Click **Create catalog**.
11. On the **Access** page, select the workspaces in which users can access the catalog you created. You can select **All workspaces have access**, or click **Assign to workspaces**, select the workspaces, and then click **Assign**.
12. Change the **Owner** who will be able to manage access to all objects in the catalog. Start typing a principal in the text box, and then click the principal in the returned results.
13. Grant **Privileges** on the catalog. Click **Grant**:

    a. Specify the **Principals** who will have access to objects in the catalog. Start typing a principal in the text box, and then click the principal in the returned results.
    a. Select the **Privilege presets** to grant to each principal. All account users are granted `BROWSE` by default.

    * Select **Data Reader** from the drop-down menu to grant `read` privileges on objects in the catalog.
    * Select **Data Editor** from the drop-down menu to grant `read` and `modify` privileges on objects in the catalog.
    * Manually select the privileges to grant.

    a. Click **Grant**.
14. Click **Next**.
15. On the **Metadata** page, specify tags key-value pairs. For more information, see [Apply tags to Unity Catalog securable objects](/aws/en/database-objects/tags).
16. (Optional) Add a comment.
17. Click **Save**.
18. Make note of the `Account URL` and the `Connection URL`. You'll need these values to create a data share target in Salesforce.

1. Run the following command in a notebook or the Databricks SQL query editor.

   SQL

   ```
   CREATE CONNECTION <connection-name> TYPE SALESFORCE_DATA_CLOUD_FILE_SHARING  
   OPTIONS (  
       tenant_specific_endpoint '<tenant_specific_endpoint>',  
       core_tenant_id '<core_tenant_id>'  
   );
   ```
2. Go to the connection page of the newly created connection and make a note of the `Account URL` and the `Connection URL`. You'll need these values to create a data share target in Salesforce.

## Create a data share target in Salesforce

Create a data share target in Salesforce using the `Account URL` and the `Connection URL` you retrieved in the previous step.

See [Create a data share target (Databricks)](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=data.c360_a_create_data_share_target_databricks.htm&type=5) in the Salesforce documentation.

## Data type mappings

When you read from Salesforce Data 360 File Sharing to Spark, data types map as follows:

| Salesforce Data 360 File Sharing type | Spark type |
| --- | --- |
| `Number` | `DecimalType(38, 18)` |
| `Boolean` | `BooleanType` |
| `Text` | `StringType` |
| `Date` | `DateType` |
| `Datetime` | `TimestampType` |
| `Email` (`Text`) | `StringType` |
| `Percent` (`Number`) | `DecimalType(38, 18)` |
| `Phone` (`Text`) | `StringType` |
| `URL` (`Text`) | `StringType` |

## Limitations

* The connector can't be used with single-user clusters.