You can share a Databricks notebook with coworkers, control access with five permission levels, edit together in real time, and leave comments on code.

note

Access control is available only in the [Premium plan or above](https://databricks.com/product/pricing/platform-addons).

## Share a notebook

To share a notebook with a coworker, click  at the top of the notebook. The Sharing dialog opens, which you can use to select who to share the notebook with and what level of access they have.

You can also manage permissions in a fully automated setup using [Databricks Terraform provider](/aws/en/dev-tools/terraform/) and [databricks\_permissions](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/databricks/databricks/latest/docs/resources/permissions#notebook-usage).

### Real-time collaboration

Multiple users can edit the same cell simultaneously and can view each other's edits.

## Notebook permissions

warning

Only run code in someone else's notebook if you trust the owner of that notebook.

You can assign five permission levels to notebooks: NO PERMISSIONS, CAN READ, CAN RUN, CAN EDIT, and CAN MANAGE. The table lists the abilities for each permission.

| Ability | NO PERMISSIONS | CAN READ | CAN RUN | CAN EDIT | CAN MANAGE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| View cells |  | x | x | x | x |
| Comment |  | x | x | x | x |
| Run via %run or notebook workflows |  | x | x | x | x |
| Attach notebooks |  |  | x | x | x |
| Run commands |  |  | x | x | x |
| Edit cells |  |  |  | x | x |
| Apply tags |  |  |  | x | x |
| Modify permissions |  |  |  |  | x |

Workspace admins have the CAN MANAGE permission on all notebooks in their workspace. Users automatically have the CAN MANAGE permission for notebooks they create.

## Manage notebook permission with folders

You can manage notebook permissions by adding notebook to folders. Notebooks in a folder inherit all permissions settings of that folder. For example, a user that has CAN RUN permission on a folder has CAN RUN permission on the queries in that folder. To learn about configuring permissions on folders, see [Folder ACLs](/aws/en/security/auth/access-control/#folders).

To learn more about organizing notebooks into folders, see [Workspace browser](/aws/en/workspace/workspace-browser).

## Code comments

You can have discussions with collaborators using the comments feature. To mention users directly in comments, type “@” followed by their username. Users are notified of relevant comment activity through email.

To toggle the Comments sidebar, click the **Comments** icon  in the notebook's right sidebar.

To add a comment to code:

1. Highlight the code section and click the comment bubble:
2. Add your comment and click **Comment**.

To edit, delete, or link to a comment, click the kebab menu and select an action.