This article explains how to access and use the simplified compute UI to create and edit all-purpose and job compute.

You can switch between the simple form and the legacy compute form at the top of the create compute UI using the **Simple form** toggle.

## Overview of updated settings

The simple form UI includes updates to several compute settings to make the compute creation process easier for users. These updates include:

* [Policy selection](#policy-selection)
* [Machine learning runtime checkbox](#machine-learning-runtime-checkbox)
* [Node type selection](#node-type-selection)
* [Access mode updates](#access-mode-updates)
* [Removed the credential passthrough setting](#removed-the-credential-passthrough-setting)
* [Removed the on-demand/spot instance slider](#removed-the-on-demandspot-instance-slider)

### Policy selection

The **Policy** dropdown setting has improved to allow changing between policies without resetting the form.

### Machine learning runtime checkbox

As a UI update, you can now check the **Machine learning** checkbox to switch to the machine learning version of your selected Databricks Runtime.

### Node type selection

The multi-node setting has been removed from the UI. Compute is multi-node by default. To switch your compute to a single node, select the **Single node** checkbox in the **Performance** section.

When you switch to single-node compute, the custom tag `ResourceClass:SingleNode` and the necessary single-node Spark config are applied in the backend, not in the UI.

The new form also allows you to toggle the **Single node** setting on existing compute resources.

Additionally, the **Driver type** setting has moved under the **Advanced performance** section and defaults to **Auto** (formerly called **Same as worker**).

### Access mode updates

The compute's access mode, which dictates who can use the resource, has been moved under the **Advanced** settings.

Access mode selection is now **Auto** by default, meaning the access mode will automatically be chosen for you based on your selected Databricks Runtime. Machine learning runtimes and Databricks Runtimes lower than 14.3 default to **Dedicated**, otherwise **Standard** is used.

To manually select the access mode, click **Manual** then select the access mode using the dropdown menu.

#### Access mode naming updates

The access mode names have been updated in the following ways:

* **Shared** access mode is now **Standard**.
* **Single user** access mode is now **Dedicated** and can be assigned to single user or group.
* Additional access modes such as **No isolation shared** are marked as **Legacy (not recommended)**.

### Removed the credential passthrough setting

Credential passthrough is a legacy access mode. As such, the credential passthrough setting has been removed from the compute UI.

### Removed the on-demand/spot instance slider

The spot instance slider has been removed. The simple form includes a **Use spot instances** checkbox in the **Advanced performance** section.

You can still specify the composition of on-demand and spot instances using the [Clusters API](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/clusters).