You can create and manage notebook jobs directly in the notebook UI. If a notebook is already assigned to one or more jobs, you can create and manage schedules for those jobs. If a notebook is not assigned to a job, you can create a job and a schedule to run the notebook. To learn more about scheduling jobs, see [Run jobs on a schedule](/aws/en/jobs/scheduled).

## Schedule a notebook job

prompt

Tell [Genie Code](/aws/en/genie-code/) (Agent mode) to do this for you:

```
Schedule this notebook to run daily at 9am PST.
```

To schedule a notebook job to run periodically:

1. In the notebook, click  **Schedule** in the upper-right.

   If no jobs exist for this notebook, the **New schedule** dialog appears.

   If jobs already exist for the notebook, the **Schedules** dialog shows the list of jobs. To add a new schedule, click **Add schedule**.
2. In the **New Schedule** dialog, optionally enter a name for the job. The default name is the name of the notebook.
3. Select **Simple** to run your job on a simple schedule, such as every day, or **Advanced** to define a custom schedule for running the job, such as a specific time every day. Use the drop-downs to specify the frequency. If you choose **Advanced**, you can also use cron syntax to specify the frequency.
4. In the **Compute** drop-down list, select the compute resource to run the task.

   If the notebook is attached to a SQL warehouse, the default compute is the same SQL warehouse.

   If your workspace is Unity Catalog-enabled and [Serverless Jobs](/aws/en/jobs/run-serverless-jobs) is enabled, the compute choice defaults to serverless compute.

   If you have the **Allow unrestricted cluster creation** entitlement, you can click **Add new job cluster** to configure and create a [new job cluster](/aws/en/jobs/compute).

   You can also select an existing all-purpose compute resource.
5. If you use serverless, select the performance mode. See [Select a performance mode](/aws/en/jobs/run-serverless-jobs#performance).
6. Optionally, under **More options**, you can specify email addresses to receive notifications on job events. See [Add notifications on a job](/aws/en/jobs/notifications).
7. Optionally, under **More options**, enter any **Parameters** to pass to the job. Click **Add** and specify the key and value of each parameter. Parameters set the value of the [notebook widget](/aws/en/notebooks/widgets) specified by the key of the parameter. Use [dynamic value references](/aws/en/jobs/dynamic-value-references) to pass a limited set of dynamic values as part of a parameter value.
8. Click **Create**.

## Run a notebook job

To manually run a notebook job:

1. In the notebook, click  **Schedule** in the upper-right.
2. Click  next to the scheduled job, then click **Run now**.
3. To view the [job run details](/aws/en/jobs/monitor#job-run-details), click the job name.

## View last successful run and update notebook

There are several ways to view the last successful scheduled job run directly in the notebooks UI:

* Click **Schedule** in the upper-right. Hover over the schedule you're interested in, then click  **View last successful run**.
* Click  **Notebook and dashboard views** in the upper-right, then click  **View last successful run** for either the notebook view or the dashboard view.
* Click  **Version history** in the right sidebar, then click **Last successful scheduled run**.

The notebook view of the last successful job run shows the latest run results in the cell outputs.

* To update the notebook to the latest run, click **Update notebook with run** at the top.
* To exit this view and switch back to the original notebook, click **Edit notebook**.

## Manage scheduled notebook jobs

To display jobs associated with this notebook, click  **Schedule**. The **Schedules** dialog appears, showing all jobs currently defined for this notebook. To manage jobs, click  at the right of a job in the list.

From this menu, you can edit the schedule, [clone](/aws/en/jobs/configure-job#aux-job) the job, view [job run details](/aws/en/jobs/monitor#view-job-run-list), pause the job, resume the job, or delete a scheduled job.

When you clone a scheduled job, a new job is created with the same parameters as the original. The new job appears in the list with the name `Clone of <initial job name>`.

How you edit a job depends on the complexity of the job's schedule. Either the Schedule dialog or the job details panel displays, allowing you to edit the schedule, cluster, parameters, and so on. See [Automate jobs with schedules and triggers](/aws/en/jobs/triggers).