You can run a Databricks notebook interactively, one cell or many at a time, or schedule it to run automatically as a job. Before you can run any cell, you must [attach the notebook to a cluster](/aws/en/notebooks/notebook-compute#attach).

To run all the cells in a notebook, select **Run All** in the notebook toolbar.

important

Do not use **Run All** if steps for [mount and unmount](/aws/en/dbfs/mounts) are in the same notebook. It could lead to a race condition and possibly corrupt the mount points.

To run a single cell, click in the cell and press **shift+enter**. You can also run a subset of lines in a cell or a subset of cells. See [Run selected text](/aws/en/notebooks/basic-editing#run-selected-text) and [Run selected cells](/aws/en/notebooks/basic-editing#run-selected-cells).

To run all cells before or after a cell, use the cell run menu and select **Run All Above** or **Run All Below**. **Run All Below** includes the cell you are in; **Run All Above** does not.

The behavior of **Run All Above** and **Run All Below** depends on the cluster that the notebook is attached to.

* On a cluster running Databricks Runtime 13.3 LTS or below, cells are executed individually. If an error occurs in a cell, the execution continues with subsequent cells.
* On a cluster running Databricks Runtime 14.0 or above, or on a SQL warehouse, cells are executed as a batch. Any error halts execution, and you cannot cancel the execution of individual cells. You can use the **Interrupt** button to stop execution of all cells.

To skip a cell when running multiple cells (**Run All**, **Run All Above**, or **Run All Below**), use the `%skip` magic command at the beginning of the cell you want to skip.

When a notebook is running, the icon in the notebook tab changes from  to . If notifications are enabled in your browser and you navigate to a different tab while a notebook is running, a notification appears when the notebook finishes.

To stop or interrupt a running notebook, select  in the notebook toolbar. You can also select **Run > Interrupt execution**, or use the keyboard shortcut `I I`.

## Schedule a notebook run

To automatically run a notebook on a regular schedule, [create a notebook job](/aws/en/notebooks/schedule-notebook-jobs).

## Run Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines from a notebook

For information about starting a Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines run from a notebook, see [Develop and debug pipelines with a notebook (legacy)](/aws/en/ldp/notebook-devex).

## Notifications

Notifications alert you to certain events, such as which command is currently running and which commands are in error state. When your notebook shows multiple error notifications, the first one includes a link that allows you to clear all notifications. Notebook notifications are enabled by default. You can disable them in [user settings](/aws/en/notebooks/notebooks-manage#configure-notebook-settings).

### Background notifications

If you start a notebook run and then navigate away from the tab or window that the notebook is running in, a notification appears when the notebook is completed. You can disable this notification in your browser settings.

### Databricks Advisor

Databricks Advisor automatically analyzes commands every time they are run and displays appropriate advice in the notebooks. The advice notices provide information that can assist you in improving the performance of workloads, reducing costs, and avoiding common mistakes.

#### View advice

A blue box with a lightbulb icon signals that advice is available for a command. The box displays the number of distinct pieces of advice.

Click the lightbulb to expand the box and view the advice. One or more pieces of advice become visible.

Click the **Learn more** link to view documentation providing more information related to the advice.

Click the **Don't show me this again** link to hide the piece of advice. This type of advice no longer appears. This action can be [reversed in Editor settings](#advice-settings).

Click the lightbulb again to collapse the advice box.

### Advice settings

To turn on or turn off Databricks Advisor, go to [user settings](/aws/en/notebooks/notebooks-manage#configure-notebook-settings) or click the gear icon in the expanded advice box.

Use the **Turn on Databricks Advisor** option to turn on or turn off advice.

The **Reset hidden advice** link is displayed if one or more types of advice is currently hidden. Click the link to make that advice type visible again.