This page describes how to set up a service principal in Databricks if you want to enable machine-to-machine (M2M) OAuth authentication with Power BI.

M2M OAuth provides a more secure authentication method for Power BI connections by using service principals instead of personal access tokens. This approach:

* Eliminates credential rotation concerns associated with personal access tokens.
* Provides centralized access management through service principals.
* Enhances security.

Power BI Desktop 2.143.878.0 (May 2025 release) or above is required for this authentication method.

## Create a service principal and configure Databricks for M2M OAuth

To set up and configure a service principal for M2M OAuth, do the following:

1. Create a service principal and assign it to a workspace. See  [Add service principals to your account](/aws/en/admin/users-groups/manage-service-principals#add-sp).
2. Set up a client secret in Databricks to generate access tokens. See  [Step 1: Create an OAuth secret](/aws/en/dev-tools/auth/oauth-m2m#create-secret).
3. Grant the service principal the `SELECT` privilege on the data assets used in Power BI. See  [Grant permissions on an object](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/manage-privileges/#grant-perms).
4. Grant the service principal the CAN USE permission on the SQL warehouse used to connect to Power BI. See [Manage a SQL warehouse](/aws/en/compute/sql-warehouse/create#manage).

## Additional resources

* [Connect Power BI Desktop to Databricks](/aws/en/partners/bi/power-bi-desktop)
* [Publish to the Power BI service from Databricks](/aws/en/partners/bi/power-bi-service)