note

The organization of this article assumes you are using the simple form compute UI. For an overview of the simple form updates, see [Use the simple form to manage compute](/aws/en/compute/simple-form).

This article explains the configuration settings available when creating a new all-purpose or job compute resource. Most users create compute resources using their assigned policies, which limits the configurable settings. If you don't see a particular setting in your UI, it's because the policy you've selected does not allow you to configure that setting.

For recommendations on configuring compute for your workload, see [Classic compute configuration best practices](/aws/en/compute/cluster-config-best-practices).

The configurations and management tools described in this article apply to both all-purpose and job compute. For more considerations on configuring job compute, see [Configure compute for jobs](/aws/en/jobs/compute).

## Create a new all-purpose compute resource

To create a new all-purpose compute resource:

1. In the workspace sidebar, click **Compute**.
2. Click the **Create compute** button.
3. Configure the compute resource.
4. Click **Create**.

You new compute resource will automatically start spinning up and be ready to use shortly.

## Compute policy

Policies are a set of rules used to limit the configuration options available to users when they create compute resources. If a user doesn't have the **Unrestricted cluster creation** entitlement, then they can only create compute resources using their granted policies.

To create compute resources according to a policy, select a policy from the **Policy** drop-down menu.

By default, all users have access to the **Personal Compute** policy, allowing them to create single-machine compute resources. If you need access to Personal Compute or any additional policies, reach out to your workspace admin.

## Performance settings

The following settings appear under the **Performance** section of the simple form compute UI:

* [Databricks Runtime versions](#databricks-runtime-versions)
* [Use Photon acceleration](#use-photon-acceleration)
* [Worker node type](#worker-node-type)
* [Single-node compute](#single-node-compute)
* [Enable autoscaling](#enable-autoscaling)
* [Advanced performance settings](#advanced-performance-settings)

### Databricks Runtime versions

Databricks Runtime is the set of core components that run on your compute. Select the runtime using the **Databricks Runtime Version** drop-down menu. For details on specific Databricks Runtime versions, see [Databricks Runtime release notes versions and compatibility](/aws/en/release-notes/runtime/). All versions include Apache Spark. Databricks recommends the following:

* For all-purpose compute, use the most current version to ensure you have the latest optimizations and the most up-to-date compatibility between your code and preloaded packages.
* For job compute running operational workloads, consider using the Long Term Support (LTS) Databricks Runtime version. Using the LTS version will ensure you don't run into compatibility issues and can thoroughly test your workload before upgrading.
* For data science and machine learning use cases, consider Databricks Runtime ML version.

### Use Photon acceleration

Photon is enabled by default on compute running Databricks Runtime 9.1 LTS and above.

To enable or disable Photon acceleration, select the **Use Photon Acceleration** checkbox. To learn more about Photon, see [What is Photon?](/aws/en/compute/photon).

### Worker node type

A compute resource consists of one driver node and zero or more worker nodes. You can pick separate cloud provider instance types for the driver and worker nodes, although by default the driver node uses the same instance type as the worker node. The driver node setting is underneath the **Advanced performance** section.

Different families of instance types fit different use cases, such as memory-intensive or compute-intensive workloads. You can also select a pool to use as the worker or driver node.

important

Do not use a pool with spot instances as your driver type. Select an on-demand driver type to prevent your driver from being reclaimed. See [Connect to pools](/aws/en/compute/pool-index).

In multi-node compute, worker nodes run the Spark executors and other services required for a properly functioning compute resource. When you distribute your workload with Spark, all of the distributed processing happens on worker nodes. Databricks runs one executor per worker node. Therefore, the terms executor and worker are used interchangeably in the context of the Databricks architecture.

tip

To run a Spark job, you need at least one worker node. If the compute resource has zero workers, you can run non-Spark commands on the driver node, but Spark commands will fail.

#### Flexible node types

If your workspace has flexible node types enabled, you can use flexible node types for your compute resource. Flexible node types allow your compute resource to fall back to alternative, compatible instance types when your specified instance type is unavailable. This behavior improves compute launch reliability by reducing capacity failures during compute launches. See [Improve compute launch reliability using flexible node types](/aws/en/compute/flexible-node-types).

#### Worker node IP addresses

Databricks launches worker nodes with two private IP addresses each. The node's primary private IP address hosts Databricks internal traffic. The secondary private IP address is used by the Spark container for intra-cluster communication. This model allows Databricks to provide isolation between multiple compute resources in the same workspace.

#### GPU instance types

For computationally challenging tasks that demand high performance, like those associated with deep learning, Databricks supports compute resources that are accelerated with graphics processing units (GPUs). For more information, see [GPU-enabled compute](/aws/en/compute/gpu).

Databricks no longer supports spinning up compute using Amazon EC2 P2 instances.

#### AWS Graviton instance types

Databricks supports [AWS Graviton](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/graviton/) instances. These instances use AWS-designed Graviton processors that are built on top of the Arm64 instruction set architecture. AWS claims that instance types with these processors have the best price-to-performance ratio of any instance type on Amazon EC2. To use Graviton instance types, select one of the available AWS Graviton instance type for the **Worker type**, **Driver type**, or both.

Databricks supports AWS Graviton-enabled compute:

* On Databricks Runtime 9.1 LTS and above for non-[Photon](/aws/en/compute/photon), and Databricks Runtime 10.2 and above for Photon.
* On [Databricks Runtime 15.4 LTS for Machine Learning](/aws/en/release-notes/runtime/15.4lts-ml) and above.
* In all AWS Regions. Note, however, that not all instance types are available in all Regions. If you select an instance type that is not available in the Region for a workspace, you get compute creation failure.
* For AWS Graviton2 and Graviton3 processors.

#### ARM64 ISA limitations

* Floating point precision changes: typical operations like adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing have no change in precision. For single triangle functions such as `sin` and `cos`, the upper bound on the precision difference to Intel instances is `1.11e-16`.
* Third party support: the change in ISA may have some impact on support for third-party tools and libraries.
* Mixed-instance compute: Databricks does not support mixing AWS Graviton and non-AWS Graviton instance types, as each type requires a different Databricks Runtime.

#### Graviton limitations

The following features do not support AWS Graviton instance types:

* Python UDFs (Python UDFs are available on Databricks Runtime 15.2 and above)
* Databricks Container Services
* Databricks SQL
* Databricks on AWS GovCloud
* Access to workspace files, including those in Git folders, from web terminals

#### AWS Fleet instance types

note

If your workspace was created before May 2023, its IAM role's permissions might need to be updated to allow access to fleet instance types. For more information, see [Enable fleet instance types](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/fleet).

A fleet instance type is a variable instance type that automatically resolves to the best available instance type of the same size.

For example, if you select the fleet instance type `m-fleet.xlarge`, your node will resolve to whichever `.xlarge`, general purpose instance type has the best spot capacity and price at that moment. The instance type your compute resource resolves to will always have the same memory and number of cores as the fleet instance type you chose.

Fleet instance types use AWS's [Spot Placement Score API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-placement-score.html) to choose the best and most likely to succeed availability zone for your compute resource at startup time.

For the full list of fleet instance types and their backing AWS instance families, see [Fleet instance types reference](/aws/en/compute/fleet-instance-types).

#### Fleet limitations

* If you update the spot instance bid percentage using the API or JSON, it has no effect when the worker node type is set to a fleet instance type. This is because there is no single on-demand instance to use as a reference point for the spot price.
* Fleet instances do not support GPU instances.
* A small percentage of older workspaces do not yet support fleet instance types. If this is the case for your workspace, you'll see an error indicating this when attempting to create compute or an instance pool using a fleet instance type. We're working to bring support to these remaining workspaces.

### Single-node compute

The **Single node** checkbox allows you to create a single node compute resource.

Single node compute is intended for jobs that use small amounts of data or non-distributed workloads such as single-node machine learning libraries. Multi-node compute should be used for larger jobs with distributed workloads.

#### Single node properties

A single node compute resource has the following properties:

* Runs Spark locally.
* Driver acts as both master and worker, with no worker nodes.
* Spawns one executor thread per logical core in the compute resource, minus 1 core for the driver.
* Saves all `stderr`, `stdout`, and `log4j` log outputs in the driver log.
* Can't be converted to a multi-node compute resource.

#### Selecting single or multi node

Consider your use case when deciding between single or multi-node compute:

* Large-scale data processing will exhaust the resources on a single node compute resource. For these workloads, Databricks recommends using multi-node compute.
* A multi-node compute resource can't be scaled to 0 workers. Use single node compute instead.
* GPU scheduling is not enabled on single node compute.
* On single-node compute, Spark cannot read Parquet files with a UDT column. The following error message results:

  Console

  ```
  The Spark driver has stopped unexpectedly and is restarting. Your notebook will be automatically reattached.
  ```

  To work around this problem, disable the native Parquet reader:

  Python

  ```
  spark.conf.set("spark.databricks.io.parquet.nativeReader.enabled", False)
  ```

### Enable autoscaling

When **Enable autoscaling** is checked, you can provide a minimum and maximum number of workers for the compute resource. Databricks then chooses the appropriate number of workers required to run your job.

To set the minimum and the maximum number of workers your compute resource will autoscale between, use the **Min** and **Max** fields next to the **Worker type** dropdown.

If you don't enable autoscaling, you must enter a fixed number of workers in the **Workers** field next to the **Worker type** dropdown.

note

When the compute resource is running, the compute details page displays the number of allocated workers. You can compare number of allocated workers with the worker configuration and make adjustments as needed.

#### Benefits of autoscaling

With autoscaling, Databricks dynamically reallocates workers to account for the characteristics of your job. Certain parts of your pipeline may be more computationally demanding than others, and Databricks automatically adds additional workers during these phases of your job (and removes them when they're no longer needed).

Autoscaling makes it easier to achieve high utilization because you don't need to provision the compute to match a workload. This applies especially to workloads whose requirements change over time (like exploring a dataset during the course of a day), but it can also apply to a one-time shorter workload whose provisioning requirements are unknown. Autoscaling thus offers two advantages:

* Workloads can run faster compared to a constant-sized under-provisioned compute resource.
* Autoscaling can reduce overall costs compared to a statically-sized compute resource.

Depending on the constant size of the compute resource and the workload, autoscaling gives you one or both of these benefits at the same time. The compute size can go below the minimum number of workers selected when the cloud provider terminates instances. In this case, Databricks continuously retries to re-provision instances in order to maintain the minimum number of workers.

note

Autoscaling is not available for `spark-submit` jobs.

note

Compute auto-scaling has limitations scaling down cluster size for Structured Streaming workloads. Databricks recommends using Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines with enhanced autoscaling for streaming workloads. See [Optimize Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines cluster utilization with autoscaling](/aws/en/ldp/auto-scaling).

#### How autoscaling behaves

Workspace on the Premium plan or above