Preview

This feature is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types).

Use tags to organize and categorize notebooks for easier management. Notebooks also support certification and deprecation system tags to indicate trust or lifecycle status.

For more information about tags, see [Apply tags to Unity Catalog securable objects](/aws/en/database-objects/tags). For information about certification and deprecation, see [Flag data as certified or deprecated](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/certify-deprecate-data).

## Limitations

* Notebook tags do not propagate to billing.

## View tags

To view tags on a notebook:

1. Open your notebook.
2. In the right panel, click the  icon.
3. The **Tags** section displays all tags assigned to the notebook.

## Add tags

You must have at least CAN EDIT permissions on a notebook to add a tag. To add a governed tag, you must also have the ASSIGN permission on the governed tag.

To add tags:

1. Open your notebook.
2. In the right panel, click the  icon.
3. Under **Tags**, add or update a tag:

   * If there are no tags, click **Add tags**.
   * If there are tags, click the  **Add/Edit tags** icon.
4. Select an existing tag **Key** and **Value** or enter a name of a new tag.

   * Tags that are governed are in the **Governed** section header and have a lock icon .
   * Tag keys are required. Whether a tag value is required depends on the tag key.

## Remove tags

You must have at least CAN EDIT permissions on a notebook to remove a tag.

To remove tags:

1. Open your notebook.
2. In the right panel, click the  icon.
3. Under **Tags**, click the  **Add/Edit tags** icon.
4. Click the  next to the tag you want to remove.
5. Click **Save**.