Databricks recommends configuring Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines with Unity Catalog. Using Unity Catalog is the default for newly created pipelines.

Pipelines configured with Unity Catalog publish all defined materialized views and streaming tables to the specified catalog and schema. Unity Catalog pipelines can read from other Unity Catalog tables and volumes.

To manage permissions on the tables created by a Unity Catalog pipeline, use [GRANT and REVOKE](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/manage-privileges/).

note

This article discusses functionality for the current default publishing mode for pipelines. Pipelines created before February 5, 2025, might use the legacy publishing mode and `LIVE` virtual schema. See [LIVE schema (legacy)](/aws/en/ldp/live-schema).

## Requirements

To create streaming tables and materialized views in a target schema in Unity Catalog, you must have the following permissions on the schema and parent catalog:

* `USE CATALOG` privileges on the target catalog.
* `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` and `USE SCHEMA` privileges on the target schema if your pipeline creates [materialized views](/aws/en/ldp/concepts/materialized-views).
* `CREATE TABLE` and `USE SCHEMA` privileges on the target schema if your pipeline creates [streaming tables](/aws/en/ldp/concepts/streaming-tables).
* If your pipeline creates new schemas, you must have `USE CATALOG` and `CREATE SCHEMA` privileges on the target catalog.

Compute requirements to run a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline:

* Your compute resource must be configured with standard access mode. Dedicated compute is not supported. See [Access modes](/aws/en/compute/configure#access-mode).

Compute required to query tables that are created by pipelines using Unity Catalog (including streaming tables and materialized views) includes any of the following:

* SQL warehouses
* Standard access mode compute on Databricks Runtime 13.3 LTS or above.
* Dedicated access mode compute, if fine-grained access control is enabled on the dedicated compute (that is, it is running on Databricks Runtime 15.4 or above and serverless compute is enabled for the workspace). For more information, see [Fine-grained access control on dedicated compute](/aws/en/compute/single-user-fgac).
* Dedicated access mode compute on 13.3 LTS through 15.3, only if the table owner runs the query.

Additional compute limitations apply. See the section that follows.

## Limitations

The following are limitations when using Unity Catalog with pipelines:

* By default, only the pipeline owner and workspace admins can view the driver logs from the compute that runs a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline. To allow other users to access the driver logs, see [Allow non-admin users to view the driver logs from a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline](/aws/en/ldp/privileges#driver-log-permissions).
* Existing pipelines that use the Hive metastore cannot be upgraded to use Unity Catalog. To migrate an existing pipeline that writes to Hive metastore, you must create a new pipeline and re-ingest data from the data source(s). See [Create a Unity Catalog pipeline by cloning a Hive metastore pipeline](/aws/en/ldp/clone-hms-to-uc).

* You cannot create a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline in a workspace attached to a metastore that was created during the Unity Catalog Public Preview. See [Upgrade to privilege inheritance](/aws/en/archive/unity-catalog/upgrade-privilege-model).

* JARs are not supported. Only third-party Python libraries are supported. See [Manage Python dependencies for pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/developer/external-dependencies).
* Data manipulation language (DML) queries that modify the schema of a streaming table are not supported.
* A materialized view created in a pipeline cannot be used as a streaming source outside of that pipeline, for example, in another pipeline or a downstream notebook.
* Data for materialized views and streaming tables are stored in the storage location for the containing schema. If a schema storage location is not specified, tables are stored in the catalog storage location. If schema and catalog storage locations are not specified, tables are stored in the root storage location of the metastore.
* The Catalog Explorer **History** tab does not show history for materialized views.
* The `LOCATION` property is not supported when defining a table.
* Unity Catalog-enabled pipelines cannot publish to the Hive metastore.
* [Global init scripts](/aws/en/init-scripts/global) are not supported. Databricks recommends using the pipeline **Environment** settings to install dependencies. On classic compute, you can use [cluster-scoped init scripts](/aws/en/init-scripts/cluster-scoped), but Databricks recommends the **Environment** settings instead. Serverless pipelines do not support init scripts. See [Manage Python dependencies for pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/developer/external-dependencies).

* Python UDF support is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types).

note

The underlying files supporting materialized views might include data from upstream tables (including possible personally identifiable information) that do not appear in the materialized view definition. This data is automatically added to the underlying storage to support incremental refreshing of materialized views.

Because the underlying files of a materialized view might risk exposing data from upstream tables not part of the materialized view schema, Databricks recommends not sharing the underlying storage with untrusted downstream consumers.

For example, suppose a materialized view definition includes a `COUNT(DISTINCT field_a)` clause. Even though the materialized view definition only includes the aggregate `COUNT DISTINCT` clause, the underlying files contain a list of the actual values of `field_a`.

## Use Hive metastore and Unity Catalog pipelines together

Your workspace can contain pipelines that use Unity Catalog and the legacy Hive metastore. However, a single pipeline cannot write to the Hive metastore and Unity Catalog. Existing pipelines that write to the Hive metastore cannot be upgraded to use Unity Catalog. To migrate an existing pipeline that writes to Hive metastore, you must create a new pipeline and re-ingest data from the data source(s). See [Create a Unity Catalog pipeline by cloning a Hive metastore pipeline](/aws/en/ldp/clone-hms-to-uc).

Existing pipelines not using Unity Catalog are unaffected by creating new pipelines configured with Unity Catalog. These pipelines continue to persist data to the Hive metastore using the configured storage location.

Unless specified otherwise in this document, all existing data sources and pipeline functionality are supported with pipelines that use Unity Catalog. Both the [Python](/aws/en/ldp/developer/python-ref) and [SQL](/aws/en/ldp/developer/sql-ref) interfaces are supported with pipelines that use Unity Catalog.

## Inactive tables

When a pipeline is configured to persist data to Unity Catalog, the pipeline manages the lifecycle and permissions of the table.

Tables can become inactive if their definition is removed from a pipeline. The next pipeline update marks the corresponding materialized view or streaming table entry as inactive.

If you change the pipeline’s default catalog or schema and do not use fully qualified table names in the pipeline source code, the next pipeline run creates the materialized view or streaming table in the new catalog or schema, and the previous materialized view or streaming table in the old location is marked as inactive.

You can still query inactive tables, but the pipeline no longer updates them. To clean up materialized views or streaming tables, explicitly `DROP` the table. Inactive tables are deleted when the pipeline is deleted.

* You can recover dropped tables within 7 days by using the `UNDROP` command.
* To retain the legacy behavior where the materialized view or streaming table entry is removed from Unity Catalog on the next pipeline update, set the pipeline configuration `"pipelines.dropInactiveTables": "true"`. The actual data is retained for a period so that it can be recovered if deleted by mistake. The data can be recovered within 7 days by adding the materialized view or streaming table back into the pipeline definition.

Deleting the pipeline entirely (as opposed to removing a table definition from the pipeline source) also deletes all tables defined in that pipeline. The UI prompts you to confirm the deletion of a pipeline.

### Delete a pipeline

When you delete a Unity Catalog pipeline, the associated materialized views, streaming tables, and views are also deleted.

To delete a pipeline and retain its tables, use the `cascade` field in the API. The retained tables are inactive, but can be queried. You can move inactive tables to a new pipeline, and if attached to a flow, they are reactivated. See [Move tables between pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/move-table).

```
DELETE /api/2.0/pipelines/{pipeline_id}?cascade=false
```

See [Delete a pipeline](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/pipelines/delete) in the Databricks REST API documentation.

## Write tables to Unity Catalog from a pipeline

To write your tables to Unity Catalog, you must configure your pipeline to work with it through your workspace. When you [create a pipeline](/aws/en/ldp/configure-pipeline), select **Unity Catalog** under **Storage options**, select a catalog in the **Catalog** drop-down menu, and select an existing schema or enter the name for a new schema in the **Target schema** drop-down menu. To learn about Unity Catalog catalogs, see [What are catalogs in Databricks?](/aws/en/catalogs/). To learn about schemas in Unity Catalog,see [What are schemas in Databricks?](/aws/en/schemas/).

note

When a pipeline publishes to Unity Catalog, Databricks stores some backing data in the reserved `__databricks_internal` catalog. This is expected. See [The `__databricks_internal` catalog](/aws/en/catalogs/#databricks-internal).

## Ingest data into a Unity Catalog pipeline

Your pipeline configured to use Unity Catalog can read data from:

* Unity Catalog managed and external tables, views, materialized views and streaming tables.
* Hive metastore tables and views.
* Auto Loader using the `read_files()` function to read from Unity Catalog external locations.
* Apache Kafka and Amazon Kinesis.

The following are examples of reading from Unity Catalog and Hive metastore tables.

### Batch ingestion from a Unity Catalog table

* SQL
* Python

SQL

```
CREATE OR REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW  
  table_name  
AS SELECT  
  *  
FROM  
  my_catalog.my_schema.table1;
```

Python

```
@dp.materialized_view  
def table_name():  
  return spark.read.table("my_catalog.my_schema.table")
```

### Stream changes from a Unity Catalog table

* SQL
* Python

SQL

```
CREATE OR REFRESH STREAMING TABLE  
  table_name  
AS SELECT  
  *  
FROM  
  STREAM(my_catalog.my_schema.table1);
```

Python

```
@dp.table  
def table_name():  
  return spark.readStream.table("my_catalog.my_schema.table")
```

### Ingest data from Hive metastore

A pipeline that uses Unity Catalog can read data from Hive metastore tables using the `hive_metastore` catalog:

* SQL
* Python

SQL

```
CREATE OR REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW  
  table_name  
AS SELECT  
  *  
FROM  
  <hms_federation_catalog>.some_schema.table;
```

Python

```
@dp.materialized_view  
def table3():  
  return spark.read.table("<hms_federation_catalog>.some_schema.table")
```

### Ingest data from Auto Loader

* SQL
* Python

SQL

```
CREATE OR REFRESH STREAMING TABLE table_name  
AS SELECT *  
FROM STREAM read_files(  
  "/path/to/uc/external/location",  
  format => "json"  
)
```

Python

```
@dp.table(table_properties={"quality": "bronze"})  
def table_name():  
  return (  
     spark.readStream.format("cloudFiles")  
     .option("cloudFiles.format", "json")  
     .load(f"{path_to_uc_external_location}")  
 )
```

## Share materialized views

By default, only the pipeline owner has permission to query datasets created by the pipeline. You can give other users the ability to query a table by using [GRANT](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/security-grant) statements and you can revoke query access using [REVOKE](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/security-revoke) statements. For more information about privileges in Unity Catalog, see [Manage privileges in Unity Catalog](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/manage-privileges/).

### Grant select on a table

SQL

```
GRANT SELECT ON TABLE  
  my_catalog.my_schema.table_name  
TO  
  `user@databricks.com`
```

### Revoke select on a table

SQL

```
REVOKE SELECT ON TABLE  
  my_catalog.my_schema.table_name  
FROM  
  `user@databricks.com`
```

## Grant create table or create materialized view privileges

SQL

```
GRANT CREATE { MATERIALIZED VIEW | TABLE } ON SCHEMA  
  my_catalog.my_schema  
TO  
  { principal | user }
```

## View lineage for a pipeline

Lineage for tables defined in pipelines is visible in Catalog Explorer. The Catalog Explorer lineage UI shows the upstream and downstream tables for materialized views or streaming tables in a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline. To learn more about Unity Catalog lineage, see [Lineage in Unity Catalog](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/data-lineage).

For a materialized view or streaming table in a Unity Catalog-enabled pipeline, the Catalog Explorer lineage UI also links to the pipeline that produced the materialized view or streaming table if the pipeline is accessible from the current workspace.

## Add, change, or delete data in a streaming table

You can use [data manipulation language](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/#dml-statements) (DML) statements, including insert, update, delete, and merge statements, to modify streaming tables published to Unity Catalog. Support for DML queries against streaming tables enables use cases such as updating tables for compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

note

* DML stateme