Use the JAR task to deploy Scala or Java code compiled into a JAR (Java ARchive). Before you create a JAR task, see [Create a Databricks compatible JAR](/aws/en/jobs/tasks/jar-create) for build requirements and limitations.

Preview

Serverless Scala and Java jobs are in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types). You can use JAR tasks to deploy your JAR. See [Manage Databricks previews](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/manage-previews) if it's not already enabled.

## Requirements

* Choose a compute configuration that supports your workload.
* Upload your JAR file to a location or Maven repository compatible with your compute. See [JAR library support](/aws/en/libraries/#jar-library-support).
* **For standard access mode:** An admin must add Maven coordinates and JAR paths to an [allowlist](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/manage-privileges/allowlist). See [standard access limitations](/aws/en/compute/standard-limitations#language).

## Configure a JAR task

Add a `JAR` task from the **Tasks** tab in the Jobs UI by doing the following:

1. Click  **Add task**.
2. Enter a name into the **Task name** field.
3. In the **Type** drop-down menu, select `JAR`.
4. Specify the **Main class**.

   * This is the full name of the class containing the main method to be executed. This class must be included in a JAR configured as a **Dependent library**.
5. Click **Compute** to select or configure compute. Choose a classic or serverless compute.
6. Configure your environment and add dependencies:

   * For classic compute, click  **Add** under **Dependent libraries**. The **Add dependent library** dialog appears.

     + You can select an existing JAR file or upload a new JAR file.
     + Not all locations support JAR files.
     + Not all compute configurations support JAR files in all supported locations.
     + Each **Library Source** has a different flow for selecting or uploading a JAR file. See [Install libraries](/aws/en/libraries/).
   * For serverless compute, choose an environment then click  edit to configure it.

     + You must select **4** or higher for the **Environment version**.
     + Add your JAR file.
     + Add any other dependencies that you have. Don't include Spark dependencies, because these are already provided in the environment by Databricks Connect. For more information on dependencies in JARs, see [Create a Databricks compatible JAR](/aws/en/jobs/tasks/jar-create).
7. (Optional) Configure **Parameters** as a list of strings passed as arguments to the main class. See [Configure task parameters](/aws/en/jobs/task-parameters).
8. (Optional) To configure retries, run-duration or streaming-backlog thresholds, or notifications, see  [Advanced task settings](/aws/en/jobs/configure-task#advanced).
9. Click **Save task**.

To edit, clone, disable, or delete this task, see [Configure and edit tasks in Lakeflow Jobs](/aws/en/jobs/configure-task).