note

The Databricks JDBC Driver [source code](https://github.com/databricks/databricks-jdbc) is publicly available under the [Apache 2.0 license](https://github.com/databricks/databricks-jdbc/blob/main/LICENSE).

This reflects Databricks' commitment to transparency, collaboration, and the power of community-driven development. Contributions from developers, users, and the community are welcome. To get started, see the [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/databricks/databricks-jdbc/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

The Databricks JDBC Driver enables you to connect tools such as [DataGrip](/aws/en/dev-tools/datagrip), [DBeaver](/aws/en/dev-tools/dbeaver), and [SQL Workbench/J](/aws/en/archive/partners/workbenchj) to Databricks through Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), an industry-standard specification for accessing database management systems.

This driver has implemented the JDBC APIs and provides core functionality including OAuth, Cloud Fetch, and features such as Unity Catalog volume ingestion. It runs native query mode and supports native parameterized query, and can run using [Statement Execution APIs](https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/statementexecution), which provides the beneficial query result retention feature, or Thrift.

This page provides information on installing and using the Databricks JDBC Driver, version 3 and above. For information about the Simba JDBC Driver (Legacy), below version 3, see [Simba JDBC Driver (Legacy)](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc/).

## Requirements

To use the Databricks JDBC Driver, the following requirements must be met:

* Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 11.0 or above. CI testing is supported on JRE 11, 17, and 21.

A dedicated JDK 8 branch is available for users that require compatibility with Java 8. Users can build a JAR from this branch as needed. This branch is synced with the main branch periodically, but community contributions are welcome to keep it updated. See [Databricks JDBC driver JDK 8 branch](https://github.com/databricks/databricks-jdbc/tree/jdk-8).

## Install the driver

The Databricks JDBC Driver is published in the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.databricks/databricks-jdbc).

To install the driver, you can do any of the following:

* For Maven projects, add the following dependency to the project's `pom.xml` file to instruct Maven to automatically download the JDBC driver with the specified version:

  XML

  ```
  <dependency>  
    <groupId>com.databricks</groupId>  
    <artifactId>databricks-jdbc</artifactId>  
    <version>3.3.3</version>  
    <scope>runtime</scope>  
  </dependency>
  ```
* For Gradle projects, add the following dependency to the project's build file to instruct Gradle to automatically download the JDBC driver with the specified version:

  Groovy

  ```
  implementation 'com.databricks:databricks-jdbc:3.3.3'
  ```

To view the dependency syntax for other project types, and to get the latest version number of the Databricks JDBC Driver, see the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.databricks/databricks-jdbc).

## Additional resources

* [Configure a connection URL](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/configure)
* [Authentication properties](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/properties#authentication)
* [SQL configuration properties](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/properties#sql-config)
* [SSL trust store configuration](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/properties#ssl-configuration)
* [Enable logging](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/properties#logging)
* [Manage files in volumes](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/volumes)
* [Example: Run a query using the JDBC Driver](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/example)
* [Example: Use transactions](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/example#transactions)
* [Work with metric view metadata using the Databricks JDBC Driver](/aws/en/integrations/jdbc-oss/metadata)
* [DataGrip integration with Databricks](/aws/en/dev-tools/datagrip)
* [DBeaver integration with Databricks](/aws/en/dev-tools/dbeaver)
* [Connect to SQL Workbench/J](/aws/en/archive/partners/workbenchj)

* [Connect to Qlik Replicate](/aws/en/partners/ingestion/qlik)

* [Connect to StreamSets](/aws/en/partners/ingestion/streamsets)
* [Connect to MicroStrategy](/aws/en/partners/bi/microstrategy)