This page describes the benefits and implementation of a customer-managed VPC.

## Overview

By default, Databricks clusters are created in a single AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) that Databricks creates and configures within your AWS account.

Alternatively, you can create your Databricks workspaces within your own VPC. This feature is known as a **customer-managed VPC**.

Upcoming change

In a future release, Databricks plans to deprecate classic workspace creation with a Databricks-managed VPC. New classic workspaces will require a customer-managed VPC. For the simplest quick start, use a [serverless workspace](/aws/en/admin/workspace/serverless-workspaces). For details, see [Customer-managed VPC will soon be required for classic workspaces](/aws/en/release-notes/whats-coming#aws-managed-vpc-deprecation).

Use a customer-managed VPC for:

* **Enhanced control:** Exercise more control over your network configurations.
* **Compliance:** Comply with specific cloud security and governance standards required by your organization.
* **Internal policies:** Adhere to security policies that prevent providers from creating VPCs in your AWS account.
* **Clear approval processes:** Align with internal approval processes where VPCs must be configured and secured by your own teams (For example, information security, cloud engineering).
* **AWS PrivateLink:** A customer-managed VPC is **required** for classic compute plane (back-end) AWS PrivateLink connectivity. Inbound (front-end) and outbound (serverless compute plane) AWS PrivateLinks do not require a customer-managed VPC.

Benefits include:

* **Lower privilege level:** Maintain more control over your AWS account. Databricks requires fewer permissions using its cross-account IAM role compared to the default setup, which can simplify internal approvals.

* **Simplified network operations:** Achieve better network space utilization by configuring smaller subnets for a workspace compared to the default /16 CIDR. Avoid potentially complex VPC peering configurations.
* **Consolidated VPCs:** Multiple Databricks workspaces can share a single classic compute plane VPC, which is often preferred for billing and instance management.
* **Limit outgoing connections:** Use an egress firewall or proxy appliance to limit outbound traffic to a list of allowed internal or external data sources.

To take advantage of a customer-managed VPC, you must specify a VPC when you first create the Databricks workspace. You cannot move an existing workspace with a Databricks-managed VPC to use a customer-managed VPC. You can, however, move an existing workspace with a customer-managed VPC from one VPC to another VPC by updating the workspace configuration's network configuration object. See [Update a running or failed workspace](/aws/en/admin/workspace/update-workspace).

To deploy a workspace in your own VPC, you must:

1. Create the VPC following the requirements enumerated in [VPC requirements](#vpc-requirements).
2. Reference your VPC network configuration with Databricks when you create the workspace.

   * [Use the account console](/aws/en/admin/workspace/create-workspace) and choose the configuration by name
   * [Use the Account API](/aws/en/admin/workspace/create-workspace-api) and choose the configuration by its ID

   You must provide the VPC ID, subnet IDs, and security group ID when you register the VPC with Databricks.

## VPC requirements

Your VPC must meet the requirements described in this section in order to host a Databricks workspace.

**Requirements:**

* [VPC region](#vpc-region)
* [VPC sizing](#vpc-sizing)
* [VPC IP address ranges](#vpc-ip-address-ranges)
* [DNS](#dns)
* [Subnets](#subnets)
* [Security groups](#security-groups)
* [Subnet-level network ACLs](#subnet-level-network-acls)
* [AWS PrivateLink support](#aws-privatelink-support)

### VPC region

For a list of AWS regions that support customer-managed VPC, see [Features with limited regional availability](/aws/en/resources/feature-region-support).

### VPC sizing

You can share one VPC with multiple workspaces in a single AWS account. However, Databricks recommends using unique subnets and security groups for each workspace. Be sure to size your VPC and subnets accordingly. Databricks assigns two IP addresses per node, one for management traffic and one for Apache Spark applications. The total number of instances for each subnet is equal to half the number of IP addresses that are available. Learn more in [Subnets](#subnet).

### VPC IP address ranges

Databricks doesn't limit netmasks for the workspace VPC, but each workspace subnet must have a netmask between `/17` and `/26`. This means that if your workspace has two subnets and both have a netmask of `/26`, then the netmask for your workspace VPC must be `/25` or smaller.

important

If you have configured secondary CIDR blocks for your VPC, make sure that the subnets for the Databricks workspace are configured with the same VPC CIDR block.

### DNS

The VPC must have DNS hostnames and DNS resolution enabled.

### Subnets

Databricks must have access to at least *two subnets for each workspace*, with each subnet in a different availability zone. You cannot specify more than one Databricks workspace subnet per Availability Zone in the [Create network configuration API call](https://docs.databricks.com/api/account/networks/create). You can have more than one subnet per availability zone as part of your network setup, but you can choose only one subnet per Availability Zone for the Databricks workspace.

You can choose to share one subnet across multiple workspaces or both subnets across workspaces. For example, you can have two workspaces that share the same VPC. One workspace can use subnets `A` and `B` and another workspaces can use subnets `A` and `C`. If you plan to share subnets across multiple workspaces, be sure to size your VPC and subnets to be large enough to scale with usage.

Databricks assigns two IP addresses per node, one for management traffic and one for Spark applications. The total number of instances for each subnet is equal to half of the number of IP addresses that are available.

Each subnet must have a netmask between `/17` and `/26`.

#### Additional subnet requirements

* Subnets must be private.
* Subnets must have outbound access to the public network using a [NAT gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html) and [internet gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html), or other similar customer-managed appliance infrastructure.
* The NAT gateway must be set up [in its own subnet](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/nat-gateway-vpc-private-subnet/) that routes quad-zero (`0.0.0.0/0`) traffic to an [internet gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html) or other customer-managed appliance infrastructure.

important

Workspaces must have outbound access from the VPC to the public network. If you configure IP access lists, those public networks must be added to an allow list. See [Configure IP access lists for workspaces](/aws/en/security/network/front-end/ip-access-list-workspace).

#### Subnet route table

The route table for workspace subnets must have quad-zero (`0.0.0.0/0`) traffic that targets the appropriate network device. Quad-zero traffic must target a NAT Gateway or your own managed NAT device or proxy appliance.

important

Databricks requires subnets to add `0.0.0.0/0` to your allow list. This must be the first rule prioritized. To control egress traffic, use an egress firewall or proxy appliance to block most traffic but allow the URLs that Databricks needs to connect to. See [Configure a firewall and outbound access](#firewall).

This is a base guideline only. Your configuration requirements may differ. For questions, contact your Databricks account team.

### Security groups

A Databricks workspace must have access to at least one AWS security group and no more than five security groups. You can reuse existing security groups rather than create new ones. However, Databricks recommends using unique subnets and security groups for each workspace.

Security groups must have the following rules:

**Egress (outbound):**

* Allow all TCP and UDP access to the workspace security group (for internal traffic)
* Allow TCP access to `0.0.0.0/0` for these ports:
  + 443: for Databricks infrastructure, cloud data sources, and library repositories
  + 3306: for the legacy Hive metastore
  + 53: for DNS resolution when you use custom DNS
  + 6666: for secure cluster connectivity. This is only required if you use [PrivateLink](/aws/en/security/network/classic/privatelink).
  + 2443: Supports FIPS encryption. Only required if you enable the [compliance security profile](/aws/en/security/privacy/security-profile).
  + 5432: for connections from the classic compute plane to Lakebase.
  + 8443, 8445: for internal calls from the Databricks compute plane to the Databricks control plane API.
  + 8444: for Unity Catalog logging and lineage data streaming into Databricks.
  + 8446–8451: reserved for future use.

**Ingress (inbound):** Required for all workspaces (these can be separate rules or combined into one):

* Allow TCP on all ports when traffic source uses the same security group
* Allow UDP on all ports when traffic source uses the same security group

### Subnet-level network ACLs

Subnet-level network ACLs must not deny ingress or egress to any traffic. Databricks validates for the following rules while creating the workspace:

**Egress (outbound):**

* Allow all traffic to the workspace VPC CIDR, for internal traffic
  + Allow TCP access to `0.0.0.0/0` for these ports:
    - 443: for Databricks infrastructure, cloud data sources, and library repositories
    - 3306: for the legacy Hive metastore
    - 6666: only required if you use [PrivateLink](/aws/en/security/network/classic/privatelink)
    - 8443, 8445: for internal calls from the Databricks compute plane to the Databricks control plane API
    - 8444: for Unity Catalog logging and lineage data streaming into Databricks

important

If you configure additional `ALLOW` or `DENY` rules for outbound traffic, set the rules required by Databricks to the highest priority (the lowest rule numbers), so that they take precedence.

**Ingress (inbound):**

* `ALLOW ALL from Source 0.0.0.0/0`. This rule must be prioritized.

note

Databricks requires subnet-level network ACLs to add `0.0.0.0/0` to your allow list. To control egress traffic, use an egress firewall or proxy appliance to block most traffic but allow the URLs that Databricks needs to connect to. See [Configure a firewall and outbound access](/aws/en/security/network/classic/customer-managed-vpc#firewall).

### AWS PrivateLink support

If you plan to enabled AWS PrivateLink on the workspace with this VPC:

* On the VPC, ensure that you enable both of the settings **DNS Hostnames** and **DNS resolution**.
* Review the article [Configure classic private connectivity to Databricks](/aws/en/security/network/classic/privatelink) for guidance about creating an extra subnet for VPC endpoints (recommended but not required) and creating an extra security group for VPC endpoints.

## Create a VPC

To create VPCs you can use various tools:

* AWS console
* AWS CLI
* [Terraform](/aws/en/dev-tools/terraform/)
* Automated Databricks workspace creation, which provisions a new customer-managed VPC when you create the workspace. See [Create a workspace with automated configuration](/aws/en/admin/workspace/create-workspace#automated)

To use AWS Console, the basic instructions for creating and configuring a VPC and related objects are listed below. For complete instructions, see the AWS documentation.

note

These basic instructions might not apply to all organizations. Your configuration requirements may differ. This section does not cover all possible ways to configure NATs, firewalls, or other network infrastructure. If you have questions, contact your Databricks account team before proceeding.

1. Go to the [VPCs page in AWS](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/#vpcs:).
2. See the region picker in the upper-right. If needed, switch to the region for your workspace.
3. In the upper-right corner, click the orange button **Create VPC**.
4. Click **VPC and more**.
5. In the **Name tag auto-generation** type a name for your workspace. Databricks recommends including the region in the name.
6. For VPC address range, optionally change it if desired.
7. For public subnets, click `2`. Those subnets aren't used directly by your Databricks workspace, but they are required to enable NATs in this editor.
8. For private subnets, click `2` for the minimum for workspace subnets. You can add more if desired.

   Your Databricks workspace needs at least two private subnets. To resize them, click **Customize subnet CIDR blocks**.
9. For NAT gateways, click **In 1 AZ**.
10. Ensure the following fields at the bottom are enabled: **Enable DNS hostnames** and **Enable DNS resolution**.
11. Click **Create VPC**.
12. When viewing your new VPC, click on the left navigation items to update related settings on the VPC. To make it easier to find related objects, in the **Filter by VPC** field, select your new VPC.
13. Click **Subnets** and what AWS calls the **private** subnets labeled 1 and 2, which are the ones you will use to configure your main workspace subnets. Modify the subnets as specified in [VPC requirements](#vpc-requirements).

    If you created an extra private subnet for use with PrivateLink, configure private subnet 3 as specified in [Configure classic private connectivity to Databricks](/aws/en/security/network/classic/privatelink).
14. Click **Security groups** and modify the security group as specified in [Security groups](#security-groups).

    If you will use back-end PrivateLink connectivity, create an additional security group with inbound an