Migrate pipelines that use the `LIVE` virtual schema (the legacy publishing mode) to the default publishing mode.

The default publishing mode allows a single pipeline to write to multiple catalogs and schemas, and includes a simplified syntax for working with tables and views within the pipeline. The legacy publishing mode is considered deprecated, and Databricks recommends migrating all pipelines to the default publishing mode.

Migration affects the metadata of the pipeline, but does not read, move, or write to any datasets.

## Check whether your pipeline uses the legacy publishing mode

Legacy publishing mode pipelines are indicated in the following ways:

* **Summary** field of the Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines settings UI.
* Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines event log latest `create_update` contains `effective_publishing_mode`.
* Pipelines API `GET /api/2.0/pipelines/{pipeline_id}` response contains `effectivePublishingMode`

## Considerations for migrating to the default publishing mode

The following notes are useful to keep in mind during migration:

* Migration to the default publishing mode is not supported using Declarative Automation Bundles.
* After a pipeline is migrated to the default publishing mode, it can't be migrated back to using the `LIVE` virtual schema.
* You might need to prepare your pipeline for migration by addressing any syntax changes between the legacy and default publishing modes. Most pipelines do not require changes. For details, see [Prepare pipelines for migration](#prepare-pipeline).
* The migration affects metadata only. It does not read, move, or write to any datasets.
* In the default publishing mode, materialized views and streaming tables can't be moved across schemas after they are created.
* The default publishing mode requires Databricks CLI version v0.230.0 or above. See [Install or update the Databricks CLI](/aws/en/dev-tools/cli/install).

## Migrate to the default publishing mode

Use the following steps to migrate to the default publishing mode.

1. Click **Jobs & Pipelines** from the left sidebar in your workspace.
2. Click the name of the pipeline that you want to migrate in the list.
3. Pause updates, and let any currently running pipeline stop.

   At least one update must have run within the last 60 days prior to completing the migration. If the pipeline is triggered, or was already paused, manually run a single update. If the pipeline is continuous, make sure that it gets to (or is already in) the `RUNNING` state, and then pause.
4. Optionally, prepare any code that might need to be migrated.

   The default publishing mode is generally backwards compatible with the legacy publishing mode, but be sure to [prepare your pipeline for migration](#prepare-pipeline) so that your pipeline code runs correctly when upgraded. Most pipelines do not need changes.
5. Add a configuration in the pipeline **Settings**: `pipelines.enableDPMForExistingPipeline`, set to `true`.
6. Start a manual update, and let the update complete.
7. Optionally, in the pipeline **Settings**, remove the pipeline configuration for `pipelines.enableDPMForExistingPipeline`. This setting is used for the migration, and is not needed after the migration is complete.
8. If needed, update the schedule, and enable pipeline updates.

The default publishing mode is now enabled on the pipeline. If you see issues, use the next section to help troubleshoot. If issues persist, reach out to your Databricks account manager.

## Prepare pipelines for migration

The default publishing mode is generally backwards compatible with the legacy publishing mode, but some pipelines may need to be modified to run. The following notes can help you prepare your pipelines for migration.

### The `LIVE` keyword

The `LIVE` keyword in the legacy publishing mode qualifies the catalog and schema of the object with the pipeline defaults. The default publishing mode no longer uses the `LIVE` keyword to qualify tables or views. The `LIVE` keyword is ignored, and replaced with the default catalog and schema for the pipeline. Generally this uses the same default catalog and schema as the `LIVE` keyword in the legacy publishing mode, unless you later add `USE CATALOG` or `USE SCHEMA` commands to your pipeline.

In the legacy publishing mode, partially qualified table and view references without the `LIVE` keyword (such as `table1`) use the Spark defaults. In the default publishing mode, partially qualified references use the pipeline defaults. If your Spark defaults and pipelines are different, you should fully qualify the name of any partially qualified table or view before migrating.

note

After migration, you can remove the `LIVE` keyword from your code. Optionally, you can replace the `LIVE` keyword with fully qualified table or view names.

### Column references with the `LIVE` keyword

You can't use the `LIVE` keyword to define columns in the default publishing mode. For example, this code:

SQL

```
CREATE OR REPLACE MATERIALIZED VIEW target AS SELECT LIVE.source.id FROM LIVE.source;
```

would need to be replaced with the following, prior to migration:

SQL

```
CREATE OR REPLACE MATERIALIZED VIEW target AS SELECT source.id FROM LIVE.source;
```

This version works in either publishing mode.

### Changes to `flow_progress` event

Migrating your pipeline changes the dataset name for the `flow_progress` event in the event log. If you have queries on the event log for this pipeline, you might need to update your query.

In the legacy publishing mode, the dataset name is the `table` name. In the default publishing mode, the dataset name is the fully qualified `catalog.schema.table` name.

For details on using the event log, see [Pipeline event log](/aws/en/ldp/monitor-event-logs).

### Warnings vs errors

Some warnings in the legacy publishing mode have been replaced by errors in the default publishing mode.

**Self references** A self-reference (or circular reference) is not allowed in the default publishing mode (and had undefined results in the legacy publishing mode). For example:

SQL

```
CREATE OR REPLACE MATERIALIZED VIEW table1 AS SELECT * FROM target_catalog.target_schema.table1;
```

would generate a warning in the legacy publishing mode (and have undefined results). In the default publishing mode, it generates an error.

**Multipart names** You can't use periods in names in the default publishing mode (multipart names). For example, the following Python code is valid in the legacy mode, but not in the default mode:

Python

```
@dlt.view(name=”a.b.c”)  
def transform():  
  return …
```

Before migrating, rename the table to a name that doesn't include a period character.

note

This example also uses older syntax, `@dlt.view`. Databricks recommends using `@dp.temporary_view()` for pipelines. For more information, see [Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines Python language reference](/aws/en/ldp/developer/python-ref)

## Troubleshooting

The following table describes errors that could happen when migrating from the legacy publishing mode.

| Error | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `CANNOT_MIGRATE_HMS_PIPELINE` | Migration is not supported for Hive metastore pipelines. As an alternative, you might be able to clone the pipeline from Hive metastore to Unity Catalog prior to migration. See [Create a Unity Catalog pipeline by cloning a Hive metastore pipeline](/aws/en/ldp/clone-hms-to-uc). |
| `MISSING_EXPECTED_PROPERTY` | This error indicates that you did not run a recent update prior to adding the `pipelines.enableDPMForExistingPipeline` configuration. Remove that configuration, and, if it is missing, add the `pipelines.setMigrationHints` configuration, set to `true`. Run an update, and then continue from step 3. |
| `PIPELINE_INCOMPATIBLE_WITH_DPM` | This error indicates that your pipeline code is not fully compatible with the default publishing mode. See [Prepare pipelines for migration](#prepare-pipeline). |